Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1155
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

And assuming careful deployment, AI may also help remove
some of the bias inherent in human decision-making .

One of the more successful uses of AI analytics is in detecting white collar
crime, such as credit card fraud.101 Cybersecurity (including spam) is a widely shared
concern, and machine learning is making an impact.

AI tools may also prove useful
in helping police manage crime scenes or search and rescue events by helping
commanders prioritize tasks and allocate resources, though these tools are not yet
ready for automating such activities.

Improvements in machine learning in general,
and transfer learning in particular—for speeding up learning in new scenarios based
on similarities with past scenarios—may facilitate such systems.

The cameras deployed almost everywhere in the world today tend to be more
useful for helping solve crimes than preventing them.102 This is due to the low
quality of event identification from videos and the lack of manpower to look at
massive video streams.

As AI for this domain improves, it will better assist crime
prevention and prosecution through greater accuracy of event classification and
efficient automatic processing of video to detect anomalies—including, potentially ,
407–426.

Jordan Pearson, “ Artificial Intelligence Could Help Reduce HIV Among Homeless Youths,”
Teamcore, University of Southern California, February 4.

2015, teamcore.usc.edu/news/motherboard_news_ai_could_help_reduce_HIV .pdf.

“RSA Adaptive Authentication,” RSA, products-services/fraud-prevention/adaptive-authentication .

Takeshi Arikuma and Yasunori Mochizuki, “Intelligent multimedia surveillance system for
safer cities” APSIPA Transactions on Signal and Information Processing: 1–8.

“Big Op-Ed: Shifting Opinions On Surveillance Cameras,”, Talk of the Nation , NPR, April 22,
2013, opinions-on-surveillance-cameras .One of the more successful
uses of AI analytics is in
detecting white collar
crime, such as credit
card fraud.

Cybersecurity
(including spam) is a
widely shared concern,
and machine learning is
making an impact.

37evidence of police malpractice.

These improvements could lead to even more
widespread surveillance.

Some cities have already added drones for surveillance
purposes, and police use of drones to maintain security of ports, airports, coastal
areas, waterways, industrial facilities is likely to increase, raising concerns about
privacy , safety , and other issues.

The New York Police Department’s CompStat was the first tool pointing toward
predictive policing,104 and many police departments now use it.105 Machine learning
significantly enhances the ability to predict where and when crimes are more likely
to happen and who may commit them.

As dramatized in the movie Minority Report ,
predictive policing tools raise the specter of innocent people being unjustifiably
targeted.

But well-deployed AI prediction tools have the potential to actually remove
or reduce human bias, rather than reinforcing it, and research and resources should
be directed toward ensuring this effect.

AI techniques can be used to develop intelligent simulations for training lawenforcement personnel to collaborate.

While international criminal organizations and
terrorists from different countries are colluding, police forces from different countries
still face difficulty in joining forces to fight them.

Training international groups of law
enforcement personnel to work as teams is very challenging.

The European Union,
through the Horizon program, currently supports such attempts in projects such
as LawTrain.106 The next step will be to move from simulation to actual investigations
by providing tools that support such collaborations.

Tools do exist for scanning Twitter and other feeds to look for certain types
of events and how they may impact security .

For example, AI can help in social
network analysis to prevent those at risk from being radicalized by ISIS or other
violent groups.

Law enforcement agencies are increasingly interested in trying to
detect plans for disruptive events from social media, and also to monitor activity at
large gatherings of people to analyze security .

There is significant work on crowd
simulations to determine how crowds can be controlled.

At the same time, legitimate
concerns have been raised about the potential for law enforcement agencies to
overreach and use such tools to violate people’s privacy .

The US Transportation Security Administration (TSA), Coast Guard, and the
many other security agencies that currently rely on AI will likely increase their
reliance to enable significant efficiency and efficacy improvements.107 AI techniques—
vision, speech analysis, and gait analysis— can aid interviewers, interrogators, and
security guards in detecting possible deception and criminal behavior.

For example,
the TSA currently has an ambitious project to redo airport security nationwide.108
Called DARMS, the system is designed to improve efficiency and efficacy of airport
security by relying on personal information to tailor security based on a person’s risk
categorization and the flights being taken.

The future vision for this project is a tunnel
that checks people’s security while they walk through it.

Once again, developers of
this technology should be careful to avoid building in bias (e.g.

about a person’s risk
level category) through use of datasets that reflect prior bias.109 Walter L.

Perry , Brian McInnis, Carter C.

Price, Susan Smith, and John S.

Hollywood, “The
Role of Crime Forecasting in Law Enforcement Operations,” Rand Corporation Report “CompStat,” Wikipedia , last modified July 28, 2016, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CompStat .

LAW-TRAIN, Cambridge University Press, 2011).