Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1200
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

For
example, multiple major healthcare systems have archives of millions of patient scans,
each of which has an associated radiological report, and most have an associated
patient record.

Already , papers are appearing in the literature showing that deep neural
networks can be trained to produce basic radiological findings, with high reliability ,
by training from this data.64 Sharecare, Jianhua Yao, Daniel Mollura, and Ronald M.

Summers, “Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for
Computer-aided Detection: CNN Architectures, Dataset Characteristics and Transfer Learning,”
IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging 35, no.: 1285–1298.A small group of companies
control the EHR market,
and user interfaces
are widely considered
substandard, including
annoying pop-ups that
physicians routinely
dismiss.

28Healthcare robotics
Fifteen years ago, healthcare robotics was largely science fiction.

One company
called Robodoc,65 a spin-out from IBM, developed robotic systems for orthopedic
surgeries, such as hip and knee replacements.

The technology worked, but the
company struggled commercially , and was ultimately shut down and acquired for
its technology .66 More recently , though, the research and practical use of surgical
robotics has exploded.

In Intuitive Surgical67 introduced the da Vinci system, a novel technology
initially marketed to support minimally invasive heart bypass surgery , and then gained
substantial market traction for treatment of prostate cancer and merged with its
only major competition, Computer Motion, in 2003.

The da Vinci, now in its fourth
generation, provides 3D visualization (as opposed to 2D monocular laparoscopy) and
wristed instruments in an ergonomic platform.

It is considered the standard of care
in multiple laparoscopic procedures, and used in nearly three quarters of a million
procedures a year,68 providing not only a physical platform, but also a new data
platform for studying the process of surgery .

The da Vinci anticipates a day when much greater insight into how medical
professionals carry out the process of providing interventional medical care will
be possible.

The presence of the da Vinci in day-to-day operation has also opened
the doors to new types of innovation—from new instrumentation to image fusion
to novel biomarkers—creating its own innovation ecosystem.

The success of the
platform has inspired potential competitors in robotic surgery , most notably the
Alphabet spin-off Verb, in collaboration with J&J/Ethicon.69 There are likely to be
many more, each exploring a unique niche or space and building out an ecosystem of
sensing, data analytics, augmentation, and automation.

Intelligent automation in hospital operations has been less successful.

The story
is not unlike surgical robotics.

Twenty years ago, one company , HelpMate, created
a robot for hospital deliveries,70 such as meals and medical records, but ultimately
went bankrupt.

More recently , Aethon71 introduced TUG Robots for basic deliveries,
but few hospitals have invested in this technology to date.

However, robotics in
other service industries such as hotels and warehouses, including Amazon Robotics
(formerly Kiva), are demonstrating that these technologies are practical and cost
effective in at least some large-scale settings, and may ultimately spur additional
innovation in health care.

Looking ahead, many tasks that appear in healthcare will be amenable to
augmentation, but will not be fully automated.

For example, robots may be able to
deliver goods to the right room in a hospital, but then require a person to pick them
up and place them in their final location.

Walking a patient down the corridor may ROBODOC, Procedure Volumes,” Forbes , January 22, 2016, sites/greatspeculations/2016/01/22/intuitive-surgical-maintains-its-growth-momentum-withstrong-growth-in-procedure-volumes/#22ae6b0939a1 .

Evan Ackerman, “Google and Johnson & Johnson Conjugate to Create Verb Surgical,
Promise Fancy Medical Robots,” IEEE Spectrum , December 17, 2015,
verb-surgical-medical-robots .

John M.

Evans and Bala Krishnamurthy , “HelpMate®, the trackless robotic courier: A
perspective on the development of a commercial autonomous mobile robot,” Lecture Notes in Control
and Information Sciences , June 18,, 182–210,
is not to recognize what is
in the image—is this a liver
or a kidney?—but rather
to make a fine-grained
judgement about it.

Strict
regulations govern these
high-stakes judgements.

29be relatively simple once a patient is standing in a walker (though will certainly not
be trivial for patients recovering from surgery and/or elderly patients, especially in
corridors crowded with equipment and other people).

Driving a needle to place a
suture is relatively straightforward once the needle is correctly placed.72 This implies
that many future systems will involve intimate interaction between people and
machines and require technologies that facilitate collaboration between them.

The growth of automation will enable new insights into healthcare processes.

Historically , robotics has not been a strongly data-driven or data-oriented science.

This is changing as (semi)automation infiltrates healthcare.

As the new surgical,
delivery , and patient care platforms come online, the beginnings of quantification
and predictive analytics are being built on top of data coming from these platforms.73
This data will be used to assess quality of performance, identify deficiencies, errors,
or potential optimizations, and will be used as feedback to improve performance.

In
short, these platforms will facilitate making the connection between what is done, and
the outcome achieved, making true “closed-loop” medicine a real possibility .