Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1133
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

The final push came
through a long-running project at IBM, which culminated with the Deep Blue
program beating Garry Kasparov, then the world chess champion, by a score of
3.5-2.5 in 1997.

Curiously , no sooner had AI caught up with its elusive target than
Deep Blue was portrayed as a collection of “brute force methods” that wasn’t “real
intelligence.”8 In fact, IBM’s subsequent publication about Deep Blue, which gives
extensive details about its search and evaluation procedures, doesn’t mention the
word “intelligent” even once!9 Was Deep Blue intelligent or not?

Once again, the
frontier had moved.

An operational definition
AI can also be defined by what AI researchers do.

This report views AI
primarily as a branch of computer science that studies the properties of
intelligence by synthesizing intelligence.10 Though the advent of AI has depended
on the rapid progress of hardware computing resources, the focus here on
software reflects a trend in the AI community .

More recently , though, progress in
building hardware tailored for neural-network-based computing11 has created a Nilsson, The Quest for Artificial Intelligence .

Nilsson, The Quest for Artificial Intelligence , 89.

McCorduck, Machines Who Think , 433.

Murray Campbell, A.

Joseph Hoane Jr., and Feng-hsiung Hsu, “Deep Blue,” Artificial
Intelligence 134, nos.

and: 57–83.

Herbert A.

Simon, “ Artificial Intelligence: An Empirical Science,” Artificial Intelligence 77, no.:95–127.

Paul Merolla John V .

Arthur, Rodrigo Alvarez-Icaza, Andrew S.

Cassidy , Jun Sawada, Filipp
Akopyan, Bryan L.

Jackson, Nabil Imam, Chen Guo, Yutaka Nakamura, Bernard Brezzo, Ivan Vo,
Steven K.

Esser, Rathinakumar Appuswamy , Brian Taba, Arnon Amir, Myron D.

Flickner, William
P .

Risk, Rajit Manohar, and Dharmendra S.

Modha, “ A Million Spiking-Neuron Integrated
Circuit with a Scalable Communication Network and Interface,” paulmerolla.com/merolla_main_som.pdf .Intelligence lies on a
multi-dimensional
spectrum.

According to
this view, the difference
between an arithmetic
calculator and a human
brain is not one of kind,
but of scale, speed,
degree of autonomy, and
generality.

14tighter coupling between hardware and software in advancing AI.

“Intelligence” remains a complex phenomenon whose varied aspects have attracted
the attention of several different fields of study , including psychology , economics,
neuroscience, biology , engineering, statistics, and linguistics.

Naturally , the field of AI has
benefited from the progress made by all of these allied fields.

For example, the artificial
neural network, which has been at the heart of several AI-based solutions12 was
originally inspired by thoughts about the flow of information in biological neurons.14
AI RESEARCH TRENDS
Until the turn of the millennium, AI’s appeal lay largely in its promise to deliver, but
in the last fifteen years, much of that promise has been redeemed.15 AI technologies
already pervade our lives.

As they becomes a central force in society , the field is
shifting from simply building systems that are intelligent to building intelligent systems
that are human-aware and trustworthy .

Several factors have fueled the AI revolution.

Foremost among them is the
maturing of machine learning, supported in part by cloud computing resources
and wide-spread, web-based data gathering.

Machine learning has been propelled
dramatically forward by “deep learning,” a form of adaptive artificial neural
networks trained using a method called backpropagation.16 This leap in the
performance of information processing algorithms has been accompanied by
significant progress in hardware technology for basic operations such as sensing,
perception, and object recognition.

New platforms and markets for data-driven
products, and the economic incentives to find new products and markets, have also
contributed to the advent of AI-driven technology .

All these trends drive the “hot” areas of research described below.

This compilation
is meant simply to reflect the areas that, by one metric or another, currently receive
greater attention than others.

They are not necessarily more important or valuable
than other ones.

Indeed, some of the currently “hot” areas were less popular in past
years, and it is likely that other areas will similarly re-emerge in the future.

Large-scale machine learning
Many of the basic problems in machine learning (such as supervised and
unsupervised learning) are well-understood.

A major focus of current efforts is to
scale existing algorithms to work with extremely large data sets.

For example, whereas
traditional methods could afford to make several passes over the data set, modern
ones are designed to make only a single pass; in some cases, only sublinear methods
(those that only look at a fraction of the data) can be admitted.

Deep learning
The ability to successfully train convolutional neural networks has most benefited the
field of computer vision, with applications such as object recognition, video Gerald Tesauro, “Practical Issues in Temporal Difference Learning,” Machine Learning , no.: 257–77.

David Silver, Aja Huang, Chris J.