Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1164
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

In
short, these platforms will facilitate making the connection between what is done, and
the outcome achieved, making true “closed-loop” medicine a real possibility .

Mobile health
To date, evidence-driven analytics on healthcare have relied on traditional healthcare
data—mainly the electronic medical records discussed above.

In the clinical setting,
there are hopeful trends towards bringing new data to bear.

For example, TeleLanguage enables a human clinician to conduct language therapy sessions with
multiple patients simultaneously with the aid of an AI agent trained by the clinician.

And Lifegraph, which extracts behavioral patterns and creates alerts from data
passively collected from a patient’s smartphone, has been adopted by psychiatrists in
Israel to detect early signs of distressful behavior in patients.

Looking ahead, driven by the mobile computing revolution, the astonishing growth
of “biometrics in the wild”—and the explosion of platforms and applications that use
them—is a hopeful and unanticipated trend.

Thousands of mobile apps now offer
information, introduce behavior modification, or identify groups of “people like me.”
This, combined with the emerging trend of more specialized motion tracking devices,
such as Fitbit, and the emerging (inter)connectedness between the home environment
and health-monitoring devices, has created a vibrant new sector of innovation.

By combining social and healthcare data, some healthcare apps can perform data
mining, learning, and prediction from captured data, though their predictions are
relatively rudimentary .

The convergence of data and functionality across applications
will likely spur new and even obvious products, such as an exercise app that not only
proposes a schedule for exercise but also suggests the best time to do it, and provides
coaching to stick to that schedule.

Azad Shademan, Ryan S.

Decker, Justin D.

Opfermann, Simon Leonard, Axel Krieger, and
Peter CW Kim, “Supervised Autonomous Robotic Soft Tissue Surgery ,” Science Translational Medicine
8, no.: 337ra64–337ra64.

Carolyn Chen, Lee White, Timothy Kowalewski, Rajesh Aggarwal, Chris Lintott, Bryan
Comstock, Katie Kuksenok, Cecilia Aragon, Daniel Holst, and Thomas Lendvay , “Crowd-Sourced
Assessment of Technical Skills: a novel method to evaluate surgical performance.” Journal of Surgical
Research 187, no.: 65–71.Specialized motion
tracking devices...

and
the emerging (inter)
connectedness between
the home environment and
health-monitoring devices
have created a vibrant new
sector of innovation.

30Elder care
Over the next fifteen years the number of elderly in the United States will grow
by over 50%.74 The National Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that home health
aides will grow 38% over the next ten years.

Despite the broad opportunities in this
domain—basic social support, interaction and communication devices, home health
monitoring, a variety of simple in-home physical aids such as walkers, and light meal
preparation—little has happened over the past fifteen years.

But the coming generational
shift will accompany a change in technology acceptance among the elderly .

Currently ,
someone who is seventy was born in and may have first experienced some form
of personalized IT in middle age or later, while a fifty-year-old today is far more
technology-friendly and savvy .

As a result, there will be a growing interest and market
for already available and maturing technologies to support physical, emotional, social,
and mental health.

Here are a few likely examples by category:
Life quality and independence
- Automated transportation will support continued independence and expanded
social horizons.

- Sharing of information will help families remain engaged with one another at a
distance, and predictive analytics may be used to “nudge” family groups toward
positive behaviors, such as reminders to “call home.”
- Smart devices in the home will help with daily living activities when needed,
such as cooking and, if robot manipulation capabilities improve sufficiently ,
dressing and toileting.

Health and wellness
- Mobile applications that monitor movement and activities, coupled with social
platforms, will be able to make recommendations to maintain mental and
physical health.

- In-home health monitoring and health information access will be able to detect
changes in mood or behavior and alert caregivers.

- Personalized health management will help mitigate the complexities associated
with multiple co-morbid conditions and/or treatment interactions.

Treatments and devices
- Better hearing aids and visual assistive devices will mitigate the effects of
hearing and vision loss, improving safety and social connection.

- Personalized rehabilitation and in-home therapy will reduce the need for
hospital or care facility stays.

- Physical assistive devices (intelligent walkers, wheel chairs, and exoskeletons) will
extend the range of activities of an infirm individual.

The Study Panel expects an explosion of low-cost sensing technologies that can
provide substantial capabilities to the elderly in their homes.

In principle, social
agents with a physical presence and simple physical capabilities (e.g.

a mobile robot
with basic communication capabilities) could provide a platform for new innovations.

However, doing so will require integration across multiple areas of AI—Natural
Language Processing, reasoning, learning, perception, and robotics—to create
a system that is useful and usable by the elderly .

These innovations will also introduce questions regarding privacy within various
circles, including friends, family , and care-givers, and create new challenges to
accommodate an evermore active and engaged population far past retirement.

Jennifer M.

Ortman, Victoria A.