Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1204
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

With automated assistance, the physician could
instead supervise this process, applying her or his experience and intuition to guide the
input process and to evaluate the output of the machine intelligence.

The literal
“hands-on” experience of the physician will remain critical.

A significant challenge is to
optimally integrate the human dimensions of care with automated reasoning processes.

To achieve future advances, clinicians must be involved and engaged at the outset to
ensure that systems are well-engineered and trusted.

Already , a new generation of more
tech savvy physicians routinely utilize specialized apps on mobile devices.

At the same
time, workloads on primary care clinicians have increased to the point that they are
grateful for help from any quarter.

Thus, the opportunity to exploit new learning methods,
to create structured patterns of inference by mining the scientific literature automatically ,
and to create true cognitive assistants by supporting free-form dialogue, has never
been greater.

Provided these advances are not stymied by regulatory , legal, and social
barriers, immense improvements to the value of healthcare are within our grasp.

Healthcare analytics
At the population level, AI’s ability to mine outcomes from millions of patient clinical
records promises to enable finer-grained, more personalized diagnosis and treatment.

Automated discovery of genotype-phenotype connections will also become possible
as full, once-in-a-lifetime genome sequencing becomes routine for each patient.

A related (and perhaps earlier) capability will be to find “patients like mine” as a way
to inform treatment decisions based on analysis of a similar cohort.

Traditional and
non-traditional healthcare data, augmented by social platforms, may lead to the emergence
of self-defined subpopulations, each managed by a surrounding ecosystem of healthcare
providers augmented with automated recommendation and monitoring systems.

These developments have the potential to radically transform healthcare LeighAnne Olsen, Dara Aisner, and J.

Michael McGinnis, eds., “Institute of Medicine
(US) Roundtable on Evidence-Based Medicine,” The Learning Healthcare System: Workshop Summary., nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK53500/ .

Katherine E.

Henry , David N.

Hager, Peter J.

Pronovost, and Suchi Saria, “ A Targeted Realtime Early Warning Score (TREWScore) for Septic Shock,” Science Translational Medicine , (299),
299ra122.AI-based applications
could improve health
outcomes and quality of
life for millions of people
in the coming years—but
only if they gain the trust
of doctors, nurses, and
patients.

27delivery as medical procedures and lifetime clinical records for hundreds of millions
of individuals become available.

Similarly , the automated capture of personal
environmental data from wearable devices will expand personalized medicine.

These
activities are becoming more commercially viable as vendors discover ways to engage
large populations (e.g.

ShareCare)63 and then to create population-scale data that can
be mined to produce individualized analytics and recommendations.

Unfortunately , the FDA has been slow to approve innovative diagnostic software,
and there are many remaining barriers to rapid innovation.

HIPAA (Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act) requirements for protecting patient privacy create
legal barriers to the flow of patient data to applications that could utilize AI technologies.

Unanticipated negative effects of approved drugs could show up routinely , sooner, and
more rigorously than they do today , but mobile apps that analyze drug interactions
may be blocked from pulling the necessary information from patient records.

More
generally , AI research and innovation in healthcare are hampered by the lack of
widely accepted methods and standards for privacy protection.

The FDA has been
slow to approve innovative software, in part due to an unclear understanding of the
cost/benefit tradeoffs of these systems.

If regulators (principally the FDA) recognize
that effective post-marketing reporting is a dependable hedge against some safety risks,
faster initial approval of new treatments and interventions may become possible.

Automated image interpretation has also been a promising subject of study for
decades.

Progress on interpreting large archives of weakly-labeled images, such as
large photo archives scraped from the web, has been explosive.

At first blush, it is
surprising that there has not been a similar revolution in interpretation of medical
images.

Most medical imaging modalities (CT , MR, ultrasound) are inherently digital,
the images are all archived, and there are large, established companies with internal
R&D (e.g.

Siemens, Philips, GE) devoted to imaging.

But several barriers have limited progress to date.

Most hospital image archives
have only gone digital over the past decade.

More importantly , the problem in
medicine is not to recognize what is in the image (is this a liver or a kidney?), but
rather to make a fine-grained judgement about it (does the slightly darker smudge
in the liver suggest a potentially cancerous tumor?).

Strict regulations govern these
high-stakes judgements.

Even with state-of-the-art technologies, a radiologist will still
likely have to look at the images, so the value proposition is not yet compelling.

Also,
healthcare regulations preclude easy federation of data across institutions.

Thus, only
very large organizations of integrated care, such as Kaiser Permanente, are able to
attack these problems.

Still, automated/augmented image interpretation has started to gain momentum.

The next fifteen years will probably not bring fully automated radiology , but initial forays
into image “triage” or second level checking will likely improve the speed and costeffectiveness of medical imaging.

When coupled with electronic patient record systems,
large-scale machine learning techniques could be applied to medical image data.

For
example, multiple major healthcare systems have archives of millions of patient scans,
each of which has an associated radiological report, and most have an associated
patient record.