Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1183
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

Ortman, Victoria A.

Velkoff, and Howard Hogan, “ An Aging Nation: The
Older Population in the United States: Population Estimates and Projections,” Current Population
Reports , U.S Census Bureau, prod/2014pubs/p25-1140.pdf .Better hearing aids and
visual assistive devices
will mitigate the effects
of hearing and vision
loss, improving safety
and social connection.

Personalized rehabilitation
and in-home therapy
will reduce the need for
hospital stays.

31EDUCATION
The past fifteen years have seen considerable AI advances in education.

Applications
are in wide use by educators and learners today , with some variation between K-12
and university settings.

Though quality education will always require active engagement
by human teachers, AI promises to enhance education at all levels, especially by
providing personalization at scale.

Similar to healthcare, resolving how to best
integrate human interaction and face-to-face learning with promising AI technologies
remains a key challenge.

Robots have long been popular educational devices, starting with the early
Lego Mindstorms kits developed with the MIT Media Lab in the 1980s.

Intelligent
Tutoring Systems (ITS) for science, math, language, and other disciplines match
students with interactive machine tutors.

Natural Language Processing, especially when
combined with machine learning and crowdsourcing, has boosted online learning
and enabled teachers to multiply the size of their classrooms while simultaneously
addressing individual students’ learning needs and styles.

The data sets from large
online learning systems have fueled rapid growth in learning analytics.

Still, schools and universities have been slow in adopting AI technologies primarily
due to lack of funds and lack of solid evidence that they help students achieve
learning objectives.

Over the next fifteen years in a typical North American city , the
use of intelligent tutors and other AI technologies to assist teachers in the classroom
and in the home is likely to expand significantly , as will learning based on virtual
reality applications.

But computer-based learning systems are not likely to fully
replace human teaching in schools.

Teaching robots
Today , more sophisticated and versatile kits for use in K-12 schools are available
from a number of companies that create robots with new sensing technologies
programmable in a variety of languages.

Ozobot is a robot that teaches children
to code and reason deductively while configuring it to dance or play based on
color-coded patterns.75 Cubelets help teach children logical thinking through
assembling robot blocks to think, act, or sense, depending upon the function of the
different blocks.76 Wonder Workshop’s Dash and Dot span a range of programming
capabilities.

Children eight years old and older can create simple actions using a
visual programming language, Blockly , or build iOS and Android applications using
C or Java.77 PLEO rb is a robot pet that helps children learn biology by teaching
the robot to react to different aspects of the environment.78 However, while fun and
engaging for some, in order for such kits to become widespread, there will need to be
compelling evidence that they improve students’ academic performance.

Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) and online learning
ITS have been developed from research laboratory projects such as Why-2 Atlas,
which supported human-machine dialogue to solve physics problems early in the
era.79 The rapid migration of ITS from laboratory experimental stages to real use is Ozobot, cubelets .

“Meet Dash,” Wonder Workshop, dash.

“Pleo rb,” Innvo Labs, lifeform.php .

Kurt VanLehn, Pamela W .

Jordan, Carolyn P .

Rosé, Dumisizwe Bhembe, Michael Böttner,
Andy Gaydos, Maxim Makatchev, Umarani Pappuswamy , Michael Ringenberg, Antonio Roque,
Stephanie Siler, and Ramesh Srivastava, “The Architecture of Why2-Atlas: A Coach for Qualitative Though quality education
will always require active
engagement by human
teachers, AI promises to
enhance education at
all levels, especially by
providing personalization
at scale.

32surprising and welcome.

Downloadable software and online systems such as Carnegie
Speech or Duolingo provide foreign language training using Automatic Speech
Recognition (ASR) and NLP techniques to recognize language errors and help users
correct them.80 Tutoring systems such as the Carnegie Cognitive Tutor81 have been
used in US high schools to help students learn mathematics.

Other ITS have been
developed for training in geography , circuits, medical diagnosis, computer literacy
and programming, genetics, and chemistry .

Cognitive tutors use software to mimic
the role of a good human tutor by , for example, providing hints when a student gets
stuck on a math problem.

Based on the hint requested and the answer provided, the
tutor offers context specific feedback.

Applications are growing in higher education.

An ITS called SHERLOCK82 is
beginning to be used to teach Air Force technicians to diagnose electrical systems
problems in aircraft.

And the University of Southern California’s Information
Sciences Institute has developed more advanced avatar-based training modules to
train military personnel being sent to international posts in appropriate behavior
when dealing with people from different cultural backgrounds.

New algorithms for
personalized tutoring, such as Bayesian Knowledge Tracing, enable individualized
mastery learning and problem sequencing.83
Most surprising has been the explosion of the Massive Open Online Courses
(MOOCs) and other models of online education at all levels—including the use
of tools like Wikipedia and Khan Academy as well as sophisticated learning
management systems that build in synchronous as well as asynchronous education
and adaptive learning tools.