Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1191
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

As noted in the Section III policy discussion, how well this is done
will affect the pace and scope of AI-related advances in the transportation sector.

On-demand transportation
On-demand transportation services such as Uber and Lyft have emerged as another
pivotal application of sensing, connectivity , and AI,58 with algorithms for matching
drivers to passengers by location and suitability (reputation modeling).59 Through dynamic pricing, these services ration access by willingness-to-pay , with
dynamic pricing also encouraging an increase in the supply of drivers, and have
become a popular method for transportation in cities.

With their rapid advance have
come multiple policy and legal issues, such as competition with existing taxi services
and concerns about lack of regulation and safety .

On-demand transportation services
seem likely to be a major force towards self-driving cars.

Carpooling and ridesharing have long been seen as a promising approach to
decrease traffic congestion and better utilize personal transportation resources.

Services such as Zimride and Nuride bring together people sharing similar routes for a
joint trip.

But this approach to carpooling has failed to gain traction on a large scale.

“U.S.

Department of Transportation Launches Smart City Challenge to Create a City of
the Future,” Transportation.gov, U.S.

Department of Transportation, December 7, 2015, accessed
August 1, 2016,
launches-smart-city-challenge-create-city-future .

Will Knight, “Car-to-Car Communication: A simple wireless technology promises to
make driving much safer.,” MIT Technology Review , technologyreview.com/s/534981/car-to-car-communication/ .

“ Amazon Prime Air,” Amazon, b?node=8037720011 .

Jared Meyer, “Uber and Lyft are changing the way Americans move about their country ,”
National Review , June 7, 2016, article/436263/uber-lyft-ride-sharing-services-sharing-economy-are-future .

Alexander Howard, “How Digital Platforms Like LinkedIn, Uber And TaskRabbit Are
Changing The On-Demand Economy ,” The Huffington Post , July 14, 2015, .

“ Announcing UberPool,” Uber Newsroom, August 5, 2014, newsroom.uber.com/announcing-uberpool/ .Our Study Panel doesn’t
expect drones that can
fly, swim, and drive, or
flying quadcoptors to
become a common means
of transportation by (although prototypes exist
today).

24Interacting with people
For decades, people have imagined wildly different, futuristic-looking transportation
vehicles.

Although future cars will be smarter and drones will be available widely , it
is unlikely that by we will have widely adopted transportation vehicles that look
and function differently than the ones we have today .

Our Study Panel doesn’t expect
drones that can fly , swim, and drive, or flying quadcoptors to become a common
means of transportation in this time horizon (although prototypes exist today).

We do expect humans to become partners to self-driving cars and drones in their
training, execution, and evaluation.

This partnering will happen both when humans
are co-located with machines and also virtually .

We predict advances in algorithms to
facilitate machine learning from human input.

We also expect models and algorithms
for modeling of human attention, and to support communication and coordination
between humans and machine.

This is an integral part of the development of
future vehicles.

HOME/SERVICE ROBOTS
Robots have entered people’s homes in the past fifteen years.

Disappointingly slow
growth in the diversity of applications has occurred simultaneously with increasingly
sophisticated AI deployed on existing applications.

AI advances are often inspired by
mechanical innovations, which in turn prompt new AI techniques to be introduced.

Over the next fifteen years, coincident advances in mechanical and AI technologies
promise to increase the safe and reliable use and utility of home robots in a typical
North American city .

Special purpose robots will deliver packages, clean offices,
and enhance security , but technical constraints and the high costs of reliable
mechanical devices will continue to limit commercial opportunities to narrowly
defined applications for the foreseeable future.

As with self-driving cars and other
new transportation machines, the difficulty of creating reliable, market-ready
hardware is not to be underestimated.

Vacuum cleaners
In 2001, after many years of development, the Electrolux Trilobite, a vacuum
cleaning robot, became the first commercial home robot.

It had a simple control
system to do obstacle avoidance, and some navigation.

A year later, iRobot introduced
Roomba, which was a tenth the price of the Trilobite and, with only bytes of
RAM, ran a behavior based controller.

The most intelligent thing it did was to avoid
falling down stairs.

Since then, sixteen million Roombas have been deployed all over
the world and several other competing brands now exist.

As the processing power and RAM capacity of low cost embedded processors
improved from its dismal state in the year 2000, the AI capabilities of these robots
also improved dramatically .

Simple navigation, self-charging, and actions for dealing
with full dust bins were added, followed by ability to deal with electrical cords and
rug tassels, enabled by a combination of mechanical improvements and sensor
based perception.

More recently , the addition of full VSLAM (Visual Simultaneous
Location and Mapping)— an AI technology that had been around for twenty years—
has enabled the robots to build a complete 3D world model of a house as they clean,
and become more efficient in their cleaning coverage.

Early expectations that many new applications would be found for home robots have
not materialized.