Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1202
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

There
is growing interest in applications that can utilize the complementary strengths of
humans and machines—for humans to help AI systems to overcome their limitations,
and for agents to augment human abilities and activities.

Crowdsourcing and human computation
Since human abilities are superior to automated methods for accomplishing many
tasks, research on crowdsourcing and human computation investigates methods to
augment computer systems by utilizing human intelligence to solve problems that
computers alone cannot solve well.

Introduced only about fifteen years ago, this
research now has an established presence in AI.

The best-known example of
crowdsourcing is Wikipedia, a knowledge repository that is maintained and updated
by netizens and that far exceeds traditionally-compiled information sources, such
as encyclopedias and dictionaries, in scale and depth.

Crowdsourcing focuses on
devising innovative ways to harness human intelligence.

Citizen science platforms
energize volunteers to solve scientific problems, while paid crowdsourcing platforms
such as Amazon Mechanical Turk provide automated access to human intelligence on
demand.

Work in this area has facilitated advances in other subfields of AI, including
computer vision and NLP , by enabling large amounts of labeled training data and/or
human interaction data to be collected in a short amount of time.

Current research
efforts explore ideal divisions of tasks between humans and machines based on their
differing capabilities and costs.

Algorithmic game theory and computational social choice
New attention is being drawn to the economic and social computing dimensions of
AI, including incentive structures.

Distributed AI and multi-agent systems have been
studied since the early 1980s, gained prominence starting in the late 1990s, and were
accelerated by the internet.

A natural requirement is that systems handle potentially
misaligned incentives, including self-interested human participants or firms, as well
as automated AI-based agents representing them.

Topics receiving attention include
computational mechanism design (an economic theory of incentive design, seeking
incentive-compatible systems where inputs are truthfully reported), computational
social choice (a theory for how to aggregate rank orders on alternatives), incentive
aligned information elicitation (prediction markets, scoring rules, peer prediction) and
algorithmic game theory (the equilibria of markets, network games, and parlor games
such as Poker—a game where significant advances have been made in recent years
through abstraction techniques and no-regret learning).

Internet of Things (IoT)
A growing body of research is devoted to the idea that a wide array of devices can
be interconnected to collect and share their sensory information.

Such devices can
include appliances, vehicles, buildings, cameras, and other things.

While it’s a matter
of technology and wireless networking to connect the devices, AI can process and
use the resulting huge amounts of data for intelligent and useful purposes.

Currently ,
these devices use a bewildering array of incompatible communication protocols.

AI
could help tame this Tower of Babel.

Neuromorphic Computing
Traditional computers implement the von Neumann model of computing, which
separates the modules for input/output, instruction-processing, and memory .

With
the success of deep neural networks on a wide array of tasks, manufacturers are Natural Language
Processing is a very
active area of machine
perception.

Research
is now shifting towards
developing systems that
are able to interact with
people through dialog,
not just react to stylized
requests.

17actively pursuing alternative models of computing—especially those that are inspired
by what is known about biological neural networks—with the aim of improving the
hardware efficiency and robustness of computing systems.

At the moment, such
“neuromorphic” computers have not yet clearly demonstrated big wins, and are just
beginning to become commercially viable.

But it is possible that they will become
commonplace (even if only as additions to their von Neumann cousins) in the
near future.

Deep neural networks have already created a splash in the application
landscape.

A larger wave may hit when these networks can be trained and executed
on dedicated neuromorphic hardware, as opposed to simulated on standard von
Neumann architectures, as they are today .

Overall trends and the future of AI research
The resounding success of the data-driven paradigm has displaced the traditional
paradigms of AI.

Procedures such as theorem proving and logic-based knowledge
representation and reasoning are receiving reduced attention, in part because of the
ongoing challenge of connecting with real-world groundings.

Planning, which was a
mainstay of AI research in the seventies and eighties, has also received less attention
of late due in part to its strong reliance on modeling assumptions that are hard
to satisfy in realistic applications.

Model-based approaches—such as physics-based
approaches to vision and traditional control and mapping in robotics—have by and
large given way to data-driven approaches that close the loop with sensing the results
of actions in the task at hand.

Bayesian reasoning and graphical models, which were
very popular even quite recently , also appear to be going out of favor, having been
drowned by the deluge of data and the remarkable success of deep learning.

Over the next fifteen years, the Study Panel expects an increasing focus on
developing systems that are human-aware, meaning that they specifically model,
and are specifically designed for, the characteristics of the people with whom they
are meant to interact.

There is a lot of interest in trying to find new, creative ways
to develop interactive and scalable ways to teach robots.

Also, IoT-type systems—
devices and the cloud—are becoming increasingly popular, as is thinking about
social and economic dimensions of AI.

In the coming years, new perception/object
recognition capabilities and robotic platforms that are human-safe will grow, as will
data-driven products and their markets.