Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1192
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

Frishkoff , and Maxine Eskenazi, “ Automatic Question
Generation for Vocabulary Assessment,” Proceedings of Human Language Technology Conference and
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (HLT/EMNLP) , Vancouver, October
2005,, 819–826.

Michael Heilman, “ Automatic Factual Question Generation from Text,” PhD thesis CMULTI-11-004,, edu/~ark/mheilman/questions/papers/heilman-question-generation-dissertation.pdf .

Tahani Alsubait, Bijan Parsia, and Uli Sattler, “Generating Multiple Choice Questions from
Ontologies: How Far Can We Go?,” in eds.

P .

Lambrix, E.

Hyvönen.

E.

Blomqvist, V .

Presutti, G.

Qi, U.

Sattler, Y .

Ding, and C.

Ghidini, Knowledge Engineering and Knowledge Management: EKAW Satellite Events, VISUAL, EKM1, and ARCOE-Logic Linköping, Sweden, November 24–28, Revised
Selected Papers,, 66–79.

The 6th International Learning Analytics & Knowledge Conference, .

Third Annual ACM Conference on Learning at Scale,
las2016/ .

Ry Rivard, “Udacity Project on ‘Pause’,” Inside Higher Ed , July 18, 2013, accessed August 1,
2016,
san-jose-state-pauses-work-udacity .The current absence of
sophisticated use of AI
technologies in schools,
colleges, and universities
may be explained by
the lack of financial
resources as well as the
lack of data establishing
the technologies’
effectiveness.

34In the next fifteen years, it is likely that human teachers will be assisted by AI
technologies with better human interaction, both in the classroom and in the home.

The Study Panel expects that more general and more sophisticated virtual reality
scenarios in which students can immerse themselves in subjects from all disciplines
will be developed.

Some steps in this direction are being taken now by increasing
collaborations between AI researchers and researchers in the humanities and social
sciences, exemplified by Stanford’s Galileo Correspondence Project92 and Columbia’s
Making and Knowing Project.93 These interdisciplinary efforts create interactive
experiences with historical documents and the use of Virtual Reality (VR) to explore
interactive archeological sites.94 VR techniques are already being used in the natural
sciences such as biology , anatomy , geology and astronomy to allow students to interact
with environments and objects that are difficult to engage with in the real world.

The
recreation of past worlds and fictional worlds will become just as popular for studies
of arts and other sciences.

AI techniques will increasingly blur the line between formal, classroom education
and self-paced, individual learning.

Adaptive learning systems, for example, are going
to become a core part of the teaching process in higher education because of the
pressures to contain cost while serving a larger number of students and moving students
through school more quickly .

While formal education will not disappear, the Study
Panel believes that MOOCs and other forms of online education will become part of
learning at all levels, from K-12 through university , in a blended classroom experience.

This development will facilitate more customizable approaches to learning, in which
students can learn at their own pace using educational techniques that work best for
them.

Online education systems will learn as the students learn, supporting rapid
advances in our understanding of the learning process.

Learning analytics, in turn, will
accelerate the development of tools for personalized education.

The current transition from hard copy books to digital and audio media and texts
is likely to become prevalent in education as well.

Digital reading devices will also
become much ‘smarter’, providing students with easy access to additional information
about subject matter as they study .

Machine Translation (MT) technology will
also make it easier to translate educational material into different languages with a
fair degree of accuracy , just as it currently translates technical manuals.

Textbook
translation services that currently depend only upon human translators will
increasingly incorporate automatic methods to improve the speed and affordability of
their services for school systems.

Online learning systems will also expand the opportunity for adults and working
professionals to enhance their knowledge and skills (or to retool and learn a new field)
in a world where these fields are evolving rapidly .

This will include the expansion
of fully online professional degrees as well as professional certifications based on
online coursework.

Broader societal consequences
In countries where education is difficult for the broad population to obtain, online
resources may have a positive effect if the population has the tools to access them.

The development of online educational resources should make it easier for
foundations that support international educational programs to provide quality Stanford University: Galileo Correspondence Project, stanford.edu .

The Making and Knowing Project: Reconstructing the 16th Century Workshop of BNF MS.

FR.

at Columbia University , 31, 2015, archaeology-to-life/.While formal education
will not disappear, the
Study Panel believes that
MOOCs and other forms
of online education will
become part of learning
at all levels, from K-12
through university, in
a blended classroom
experience.

35education by providing tools and relatively simple amounts of training in their use.

For example, large numbers of educational apps, many of them free, are being
developed for the iPad.

On the negative side, there is already a major trend among
students to restrict their social contacts to electronic ones and to spend large amounts
of time without social contact, interacting with online programs.