Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1206
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

David Silver, Aja Huang, Chris J.

Maddison, Arthur Guez, Laurent Sifre, George van den
Driessche, Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Veda Panneershelvam, Marc Lanctot, Sander
Dieleman, Dominik Grewe, John Nham, Nal Kalchbrenner, Ilya Sutskever, Timothy Lillicrap,
Madeleine Leach, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Thore Graepel, and Demis Hassabis, “Mastering the game
of Go with deep neural networks and tree search,” Nature: 484–489.

W .

McCulloch and W .

Pitts, W ., “ A logical calculus of the ideas immanent in nervous activity ,”
Bulletin of Mathematical Biophysics ,: 115–133.

Appendix I offers a short history of AI, including a description of some of the traditionally
core areas of research, which have shifted over the past six decades.

Backpropagation is an abbreviation for “backward propagation of errors,” a common method
of training artificial neural networks used in conjunction with an optimization method such as
gradient descent.

The method calculates the gradient of a loss function with respect to all the
weights in the network.Human intelligence has
no match in the biological
and artificial worlds for
sheer versatility, with
the abilities “to reason,
achieve goals, understand
and generate language...

create art and music, and
even write histories.”
15labeling, activity recognition, and several variants thereof.

Deep learning is also making
significant inroads into other areas of perception, such as audio, speech, and natural
language processing.

Reinforcement learning
Whereas traditional machine learning has mostly focused on pattern mining,
reinforcement learning shifts the focus to decision making, and is a technology that
will help AI to advance more deeply into the realm of learning about and executing
actions in the real world.

It has existed for several decades as a framework for
experience-driven sequential decision-making, but the methods have not found great
success in practice, mainly owing to issues of representation and scaling.

However,
the advent of deep learning has provided reinforcement learning with a “shot in the
arm.” The recent success of AlphaGo, a computer program developed by Google
Deepmind that beat the human Go champion in a five-game match, was due in large
part to reinforcement learning.

AlphaGo was trained by initializing an automated
agent with a human expert database, but was subsequently refined by playing a large
number of games against itself and applying reinforcement learning.

Robotics
Robotic navigation, at least in static environments, is largely solved.

Current efforts
consider how to train a robot to interact with the world around it in generalizable
and predictable ways.

A natural requirement that arises in interactive environments
is manipulation , another topic of current interest.

The deep learning revolution is
only beginning to influence robotics, in large part because it is far more difficult to
acquire the large labeled data sets that have driven other learning-based areas of AI.

Reinforcement learning (see above), which obviates the requirement of labeled data,
may help bridge this gap but requires systems to be able to safely explore a policy
space without committing errors that harm the system itself or others.

Advances in
reliable machine perception, including computer vision, force, and tactile perception,
much of which will be driven by machine learning, will continue to be key enablers to
advancing the capabilities of robotics.

Computer vision
Computer vision is currently the most prominent form of machine perception.

It has
been the sub-area of AI most transformed by the rise of deep learning.

Until just a
few years ago, support vector machines were the method of choice for most visual
classification tasks.

But the confluence of large-scale computing, especially on GPUs,
the availability of large datasets, especially via the internet, and refinements of neural
network algorithms has led to dramatic improvements in performance on benchmark
tasks (e.g., classification on ImageNet17).

For the first time, computers are able to
perform some (narrowly defined) visual classification tasks better than people.

Much
current research is focused on automatic image and video captioning.

Natural Language Processing
Often coupled with automatic speech recognition, Natural Language Processing is
another very active area of machine perception.

It is quickly becoming a commodity
for mainstream languages with large data sets.

Google announced that 20% of
current mobile queries are done by voice,18 and recent demonstrations have proven
the possibility of real-time translation.

Research is now shifting towards developing
refined and capable systems that are able to interact with people through dialog, not
just react to stylized requests.

ImageNet, Stanford Vision Lab, Stanford University , Princeton University , 2016, accessed
August 1, 2016,  Greg Sterling, “Google says 20% of mobile queries are voice searches,” Search Engine Land ,
May 18, 2016, queries-voice-queries-249917 .AI technologies already
pervade our lives.

As
they become a central
force in society, the
field is shifting from
simply building systems
that are intelligent to
building intelligent
systems that are
human-aware and
trustworthy.

16Collaborative systems
Research on collaborative systems investigates models and algorithms to help
develop autonomous systems that can work collaboratively with other systems and
with humans.

This research relies on developing formal models of collaboration,
and studies the capabilities needed for systems to become effective partners.

There
is growing interest in applications that can utilize the complementary strengths of
humans and machines—for humans to help AI systems to overcome their limitations,
and for agents to augment human abilities and activities.