Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1185
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

Deep learning also has been applied to improve
automobiles’ capacity to detect objects in the environment and recognize sound .29
Self-driving vehicles
Since the 1930s, science fiction writers dreamed of a future with self-driving cars,
and building them has been a challenge for the AI community since the 1960s.

By
the 2000s, the dream of autonomous vehicles became a reality in the sea and sky , and
even on Mars, but self-driving cars existed only as research prototypes in labs.

Driving
in a city was considered to be a problem too complex for automation due to factors
like pedestrians, heavy traffic, and the many unexpected events that can happen
outside of the car’s control.

Although the technological components required to Carl Liersch, “Vehicle Technology Timeline: From Automated to Driverless,” Robert Bosch
(Australia) Pty.

Ltd., 2014, file/0009/246807/Carl_Liersch_Presentation.pdf .

“Intelligent Parking Assist System,” Wikipedia , last modified July 26, 2016, accessed August 1,
2016, .

The Tesla Motors Team, “Summon Your Tesla from Your Phone,” Tesla, January 10, 2016,
2016, .

“ Autonomous cruise control system,” Wikipedia , last modified July 30, 2016, accessed August 1,
2016, .

“Blind spot monitor,” Wikipedia , last modified April 20, 2016, .

Dana Hull, “Tesla Starts Rolling Out Autopilot Features,” Boomberg Technology , October 14,
2015, software-upgrade-adds-automated-lane-changing-to-model-s .

Aaron Tilley , “New Qualcomm Chip Brings Deep Learning To Cars,” Forbes , January 5, 2016,
new-qualcomm-chip-brings-deep-learning-to-cars/#4cb4e9235357 .As cars will become better
drivers than people, citydwellers will own fewer
cars, live further from
work, and spend time
differently, leading to
an entirely new urban
organization.

20make such autonomous driving possible were available in 2000—and indeed some
autonomous car prototypes existed30 32—few predicted that mainstream companies
would be developing and deploying autonomous cars by 2015.

During the first
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) “grand challenge” on
autonomous driving in 2004, research teams failed to complete the challenge in a
limited desert setting.

But in eight short years, from 2004-2012, speedy and surprising progress occurred
in both academia and industry .

Advances in sensing technology and machine learning
for perception tasks has sped progress and, as a result, Google’s autonomous vehicles
and Tesla’s semi-autonomous cars are driving on city streets today .

Google’s selfdriving cars, which have logged more than 1,500,000 miles (300,000 miles without an
accident),33 are completely autonomous—no human input needed.

Tesla has widely
released self-driving capability to existing cars with a software update.34 Their cars are
semi-autonomous, with human drivers expected to stay engaged and take over if they
detect a potential problem.

It is not yet clear whether this semi-autonomous approach
is sustainable, since as people become more confident in the cars’ capabilities, they
are likely to pay less attention to the road, and become less reliable when they are
most needed.

The first traffic fatality involving an autonomous car, which occurred in
June of 2016, brought this question into sharper focus.35
In the near future, sensing algorithms will achieve super-human performance for
capabilities required for driving.

Automated perception, including vision, is already
near or at human-level performance for well-defined tasks such as recognition and
tracking.

Advances in perception will be followed by algorithmic improvements
in higher level reasoning capabilities such as planning.

A recent report predicts
self-driving cars to be widely adopted by 2020.36 And the adoption of self-driving
capabilities won’t be limited to personal transportation.

We will see self-driving and
remotely controlled delivery vehicles, flying vehicles, and trucks.

Peer-to-peer
transportation services such as ridesharing are also likely to utilize self-driving vehicles.

Beyond self-driving cars, advances in robotics will facilitate the creation and adoption
of other types of autonomous vehicles, including robots and drones.

It is not yet clear how much better self-driving cars need to become to encourage
broad acceptance.

The collaboration required in semi-self-driving cars and its
implications for the cognitive load of human drivers is not well understood.

But
if future self-driving cars are adopted with the predicted speed, and they exceed
human-level performance in driving, other significant societal changes will follow.

Self-driving cars will eliminate one of the biggest causes of accidental death and
injury in United States, and lengthen people’s life expectancy .

On average, a “Navlab,” Wikipedia , last updated June 4, 2016, org/wiki/Navlab .

“Navlab: The Carnegie Mellon University Navigation Laboratory ,” Carnegie Mellon
University , 2016, .

“Google Self-Driving Car Project,” Google, com/selfdrivingcar/ .

Molly McHugh, “Tesla’s Cars Now Drive Themselves, Kinda,” Wired ,
October 14, 2015, air-update-live/ .

Molly McHugh, “Tesla’s Cars Now Drive Themselves, Kinda,” Wired , October 14, 2015,
York Times , Last updated July 12, 2016, interactive/2016/07/01/business/inside-tesla-accident.html .