Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1193
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

This section describes how researchers and practitioners define “ Artificial Intelligence,” and
the areas of AI research and application that are currently thriving.

It proffers definitions of
what AI is and is not, and describes some of the currently “hot” areas of AI Research.

This
section lays the groundwork for Section II, which elaborates on AI’s impacts and future in
eight domains and Section III, which describes issues related to AI design and public policy
and makes recommendations for encouraging AI innovation while protecting democratic values.

DEFINING AI
Curiously , the lack of a precise, universally accepted definition of AI probably
has helped the field to grow, blossom, and advance at an ever-accelerating pace.

Practitioners, researchers, and developers of AI are instead guided by a rough
sense of direction and an imperative to “get on with it.” Still, a definition remains
important and Nils J.

Nilsson has provided a useful one:
“ Artificial intelligence is that activity devoted to making machines intelligent, and
intelligence is that quality that enables an entity to function appropriately and with
foresight in its environment.”3
From this perspective, characterizing AI depends on the credit one is willing to
give synthesized software and hardware for functioning “appropriately” and with
“foresight.” A simple electronic calculator performs calculations much faster than
the human brain, and almost never makes a mistake.4 Is a calculator intelligent?

Like Nilsson, the Study Panel takes a broad view that intelligence lies on a multidimensional spectrum.

According to this view, the difference between an arithmetic
calculator and a human brain is not one of kind, but of scale, speed, degree of
autonomy , and generality .

The same factors can be used to evaluate every other
instance of intelligence—speech recognition software, animal brains, cruise-control
systems in cars, Go-playing programs, thermostats—and to place them at some
appropriate location in the spectrum.

Although our broad interpretation places the calculator within the intelligence
spectrum, such simple devices bear little resemblance to today’s AI.

The frontier of
AI has moved far ahead and functions of the calculator are only one among the
millions that today’s smartphones can perform.

AI developers now work on improving,
generalizing, and scaling up the intelligence currently found on smartphones.

In fact, the field of AI is a continual endeavor to push forward the frontier of
machine intelligence.

Ironically , AI suffers the perennial fate of losing claim to its
acquisitions, which eventually and inevitably get pulled inside the frontier, a repeating
pattern known as the “ AI effect” or the “odd paradox”—AI brings a new technology
into the common fold, people become accustomed to this technology , it stops being
considered AI, and newer technology emerges.5 The same pattern will continue in the
future.

AI does not “deliver” a life-changing product as a bolt from the blue.

Rather,
AI technologies continue to get better in a continual, incremental way .

Nils J.

Nilsson, The Quest for Artificial Intelligence: A History of Ideas and Achievements (Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press, 2010).

commons/b/b6/SHARP_ELSIMATE_EL-W221.jpg .

Pamela McCorduck, Machines Who Think: A Personal Inquiry into the History and Prospects of
Artificial Intelligence , 2nd ed.

(Natick, MA: A.

K.

Peters, Ltd., 2004; San Francisco: W .

H.

Freeman,
1979), Citations are to the Peters edition.An accurate and
sophisticated picture of
AI—one that competes with
its popular portrayal—is
hampered by the difficulty
of pinning down a precise
definition of artificial
intelligence.

13The human measure
Notably , the characterization of intelligence as a spectrum grants no special status
to the human brain.

But to date human intelligence has no match in the biological
and artificial worlds for sheer versatility , with the abilities “to reason, achieve
goals, understand and generate language, perceive and respond to sensory inputs,
prove mathematical theorems, play challenging games, synthesize and summarize
information, create art and music, and even write histories.”6
This makes human intelligence a natural choice for benchmarking the progress
of AI.

It may even be proposed, as a rule of thumb, that any activity computers
are able to perform and people once performed should be counted as an instance
of intelligence.

But matching any human ability is only a sufficient condition, not a
necessary one.

There are already many systems that exceed human intelligence, at
least in speed, such as scheduling the daily arrivals and departures of thousands of
flights in an airport.

AI’s long quest—and eventual success—to beat human players at the game of
chess offered a high-profile instance for comparing human to machine intelligence.

Chess has fascinated people for centuries.

When the possibility of building computers
became imminent, Alan Turing, who many consider the father of computer science,
“mentioned the idea of computers showing intelligence with chess as a paradigm.”7
Without access to powerful computers, “Turing played a game in which he simulated
the computer, taking about half an hour per move.”
But it was only after a long line of improvements in the sixties and seventies—
contributed by groups at Carnegie Mellon, Stanford, MIT , The Institute for
Theoretical and Experimental Physics at Moscow, and Northwestern University—
that chess-playing programs started gaining proficiency .

The final push came
through a long-running project at IBM, which culminated with the Deep Blue
program beating Garry Kasparov, then the world chess champion, by a score of
3.5-2.5 in 1997.