Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1148
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

But as exemplified in current political debates, job loss is
more salient to people—especially those directly affected—than diffuse economic
gains, and AI unfortunately is often framed as a threat to jobs rather than a boon to
living standards.

There is even fear in some quarters that advances in AI will be so rapid as
to replace all human jobs—including those that are largely cognitive or involve
judgment—within a single generation.

This sudden scenario is highly unlikely , but
AI will gradually invade almost all employment sectors, requiring a shift away from
human labor that computers are able to take over.

The economic effects of AI on cognitive human jobs will be analogous to
the effects of automation and robotics on humans in manufacturing jobs.

Many
middle-aged workers have lost well-paying factory jobs and the socio-economic status
in family and society that traditionally went with such jobs.

An even larger fraction
of the total workforce may , in the long run, lose well-paying “cognitive” jobs.

As labor
becomes a less important factor in production as compared to owning intellectual
capital, a majority of citizens may find the value of their labor insufficient to pay for
a socially acceptable standard of living.

These changes will require a political, rather
than a purely economic, response concerning what kind of social safety nets should
be in place to protect people from large, structural shifts in the economy .

Absent
mitigating policies, the beneficiaries of these shifts may be a small group at the
upper stratum of the society .113
In the short run, education, re-training, and inventing new goods and services may
mitigate these effects.

Longer term, the current social safety net may need to evolve into
better social services for everyone, such as healthcare and education, or a guaranteed
basic income.

Indeed, countries such as Switzerland and Finland have actively considered
such measures.

AI may be thought of as a radically different mechanism of wealth
creation in which everyone should be entitled to a portion of the world’s AI-produced
treasure.114 It is not too soon for social debate on how the economic fruits of
AI-technologies should be shared.

As children in traditional societies support their
aging parents, perhaps our artificially intelligent “children” should support us, the
“parents” of their intelligence.

For example, Brynjolfsson and McAfee, Second Machine Age , have two chapters of devoted to
this (Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee, The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a
Time of Brilliant Technologies ,) and Brynjolfsson,
McAfee, and Spence describe policy responses for the combination of globalization and digital
technology (Erik Brynjolfsson, Andrew McAfee, and Michael Spence, Foreign Affairs , July/August
2014, 2014-06-04/new-world-order ).

GDP does not do a good job of measuring the value of many digital goods.

When society
can’t manage what isn’t measured, bad policy decisions result.

One alternative is to look at
consumer surplus, not just dollar flows.

As AI is embodied in more goods, this issue becomes more
salient.

It may look like GDP goes down but people have better well-being through access to these
digital goods.

See Erik Brynjolfsson and Adam Saunders, “What the GDP Gets Wrong (Why
Managers Should Care),” Sloan Management Review , vol.

51, no.: 95–96.As labor becomes a
less important factor in
production as compared
to owning intellectual
capital, a majority of
citizens may find the value
of their labor insufficient
to pay for a socially
acceptable standard of
living.

40ENTERTAINMENT
With the explosive growth of the internet over the past fifteen years, few can imagine
their daily lives without it.

Powered by AI, the internet has established user-generated
content as a viable source of information and entertainment.

Social networks such
as Facebook are now pervasive, and they function as personalized channels of
social interaction and entertainment—sometimes to the detriment of interpersonal
interaction.

Apps such as WhatsApp and Snapchat enable smart-phone users to
remain constantly “in touch” with peers and share sources of entertainment and
information.

In on-line communities such as Second Life and role-playing games such
as World of Warcraft, people imagine an alternative existence in a virtual world.115
Specialized devices, such as Amazon’s Kindle have also redefined the essentials of
long-cherished pastimes.

Books can now be browsed and procured with a few swipes
of the finger, stored by the thousands in a pocket-sized device, and read in much the
same way as a handheld paperback.

Trusted platforms now exist for sharing and browsing blogs, videos, photos, and
topical discussions, in addition to a variety of other user-generated information.

To
operate at the scale of the internet, these platforms must rely on techniques that are
being actively developed in natural language processing, information retrieval, image
processing, crowdsourcing, and machine learning.

Algorithms such as collaborative
filtering have been developed, for example, to recommend relevant movies, songs, or
articles based on the user’s demographic details and browsing history .116
Traditional sources of entertainment have also embraced AI to keep pace with the
times.

As exemplified in the book and movie Moneyball , professional sport is now subjected
to intensive quantitative analysis.117 Beyond aggregate performance statistics, on-field
signals can be monitored using sophisticated sensors and cameras.