Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1128
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

The availability of large-scale data has also made transportation an ideal domain
for machine learning applications.

Since 2006, applications such as Mapquest, Google
Maps, and Bing Maps have been widely used by the public for routing trips, using public
transportation, receiving real-time information and predictions about traffic conditions, 50 and finding services around a location.51 Optimal search algorithms have been
applied to the routing of vehicles and pedestrians to a given destination (i.e.,53 54).

Despite these advances, the widespread application of sensing and optimization
techniques to city infrastructure has been slower than the application of these
techniques to individual vehicles or people.

Although individual cities have
implemented sensing and optimization applications, as yet there is no standardization
of the sensing infrastructure and AI techniques used.

Infrastructure costs, differing
priorities among cities, and the high coordination costs among the parties involved
have slowed adoption, as have public concerns over privacy related to sensing.

Still, Kitae Jang, Koohong Chung, and Hwasoo Yeo, “ A Dynamic Pricing Strategy for High
Occupancy Toll Lanes,” Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice: 69–80.

“Seattle Variable Tolling Study ,” City of Seattle Department of Transportation, May 2009,
Study%20report%20revised%206.25.10.pdf .

James F .

Peltz, “Dynamic Pricing Is Catching On in the Public and Private Sectors,”
Government Technology , March 21, 2016, finance/Dynamic-Pricing-Is-Catching-On-in-the-Public-and-Private-Sectors.html .

Arthur G Sims and Kenneth W .

Dobinson.

“The Sydney Coordinated Adaptive Traffic:
130–137.

“New York City Launches Nation’s Most Sophisticated Active Traffic Management System
Powered by TransCore’s TransSuite Traffic Management Software and RFID Technology ,”
Business Wire , September 27, 2009, home/20110927005530/en/York-City-Launches-Nation%E2%80%99s-Sophisticated-Active-Traffic .

Eric Horvitz, Johnson Apacible, Raman Sarin, and Lin Liao, “Prediction, Expectation, and
Surprise: Methods, Designs, and Study of a Deployed Traffic Forecasting Service,” Proceedings of the
Twenty-First Conference on Uncertainty and Artificial Intelligence (Arlington, Virginia: AUAI Press,
July 2005), 275–283.

Timothy Hunter, Ryan Herring, Pieter Abbeel, and Alexandre Bayen, “Path and Travel Time
Inference from GPS Probe Vehicle Data,” NIPS Analyzing Networks and Learning with Graphs , no.

John Krumm and Eric Horvitz, “Predestination: Inferring Destinations from Partial
Trajectories,” UbiComp 2006: Ubiquitous Computing, Proceedings of the 8th International Conference ,
September 2006,, 243–260.

Jill Duffy , “Get Organized: Using Location-Based Reminders,” PC Magazine , June 30, 2014,
for Real-time Route Planning,” IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems , no.:
869–878.

Matt Duckham and Lars Kulik, “Simplest” Paths: Automated Route Selection for
Navigation,” Spatial Information Theory .

Foundations of Geographic Information Science,
Proceedings of the International Conference, COSIT 2003, September (Springer-Verlag
Berlin Heidelberg, 2003), 169-185.Ethical questions arise
when programming cars to
act in situations in which
human injury or death is
inevitable, especially when
there are split-second
choices to be made about
whom to put at risk.

23AI is likely to have an increasing impact on city infrastructure.

Accurate predictive
models of individuals’ movements, their preferences, and their goals are likely to
emerge with the greater availability of data.

The ethical issues regarding such an
emergence are discussed in Section III of this report.

The United States Department of Transportation released a call for proposals in asking medium-size cities to imagine smart city infrastructure for transportation.55
This initiative plans to award forty million dollars to a city to demonstrate how
technology and data can be used to reimagine the movement of people as well as goods.

One vision is a network of connected vehicles that can reach a high level of safety
in driving with car-to-car communication.56 If this vision becomes reality , we expect
advances in multi-agent coordination, collaboration, and planning will have a
significant impact on future cars and play a role in making the transportation system
more reliable and efficient.

Robots are also likely to take part in transportation by
carrying individuals and packages (c.f., Segway robot).

For transportation of goods,
interest in drones has increased, and Amazon is currently testing a delivery system using
them,57 although questions remain about the appropriate safety rules and regulations.

The increased sensing capabilities, adoption of drones, and the connected
transportation infrastructure will also raise concerns about the privacy of individuals
and the safety of private data.

In coming years, these and related transportation issues
will need to be addressed either by preemptive action on the part of industry or within
the legal framework.

As noted in the Section III policy discussion, how well this is done
will affect the pace and scope of AI-related advances in the transportation sector.