Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1187
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

LAW-TRAIN, Cambridge University Press, 2011).

Peter Neffenger, “TSA ’s Budget—A Commitment to Security (Part I),” Department
of Homeland Security , March 1, 2016, testimony/2016/03/01/hearing-fy17-budget-request-transportation-security-administration .

Crawford, “ AI’s White Guy Problem.”As dramatized in the
movie Minority Report ,
predictive policing tools
raise the specter of
innocent people being
unjustifiably targeted.

But
well-deployed AI prediction
tools have the potential to
actually remove or reduce
human bias.

38EMPLOYMENT AND WORKPLACE
While AI technologies are likely to have a profound future impact on employment
and workplace trends in a typical North American city , it is difficult to accurately
assess current impacts, positive or negative.

In the past fifteen years, employment
has shifted due to a major recession and increasing globalization, particularly with
China’s introduction to the world economy , as well as enormous changes in non-AI
digital technology .

Since the 1990s, the US has experienced continued growth in
productivity and GDP , but median income has stagnated and the employment to
population ratio has fallen.

There are clear examples of industries in which digital technologies have had
profound impacts, good and bad, and other sectors in which automation will likely
make major changes in the near future.

Many of these changes have been driven
strongly by “routine” digital technologies, including enterprise resource planning,
networking, information processing, and search.

Understanding these changes should
provide insights into how AI will affect future labor demand, including the shift in
skill demands.

To date, digital technologies have been affecting workers more in the
skilled middle, such as travel agents, rather than the very lowest-skilled or highest
skilled work.110 On the other hand, the spectrum of tasks that digital systems can
do is evolving as AI systems improve, which is likely to gradually increase the scope
of what is considered routine.

AI is also creeping into high end of the spectrum,
including professional services not historically performed by machines.

To be successful, AI innovations will need to overcome understandable human
fears of being marginalized.

AI will likely replace tasks rather than jobs in the near
term, and will also create new kinds of jobs.

But the new jobs that will emerge are
harder to imagine in advance than the existing jobs that will likely be lost.

Changes
in employment usually happen gradually , often without a sharp transition, a trend
likely to continue as AI slowly moves into the workplace.

A spectrum of effects will
emerge, ranging from small amounts of replacement or augmentation to complete
replacement.

For example, although most of a lawyer’s job is not yet automated,111
AI applied to legal information extraction and topic modeling has automated parts of
first-year lawyers’ jobs.112 In the not too distant future, a diverse array of job-holders,
from radiologists to truck drivers to gardeners, may be affected.

AI may also influence the size and location of the workforce.

Many organizations
and institutions are large because they perform functions that can be scaled only by
adding human labor, either “horizontally” across geographical areas or “vertically”
in management hierarchies.

As AI takes over many functions, scalability no longer
implies large organizations.

Many have noted the small number of employees of
some high profile internet companies, but not of others.

There may be a natural scale
of human enterprise, perhaps where the CEO can know everyone in the company .

Through the creation of efficiently outsourced labor markets enabled by AI,
enterprises may tend towards that natural size.

AI will also create jobs, especially in some sectors, by making certain tasks more
important, and create new categories of employment by making new modes of
interaction possible.

Sophisticated information systems can be used to create new Jeremy Ashkenas and Alicia Parlapiano, “How the Recession Reshaped the Economy , in Charts,” The New York Times , June 6, 2014, interactive/2014/06/05/upshot/how-the-recession-reshaped-the-economy-in-255-charts.html .

R Dana Remus and Frank S.

Levy , “Can Robots Be Lawyers?

Computers, Lawyers, and the
Practice of Law,” Social Science Research Network , last modified February 12, 2016, accessed August 1,
2016, John Markoff, “ Armies of Expensive Lawyers, Replaced by Cheaper Software,” The New
York Times , March 4, 2011, science/05legal.html .AI will likely replace tasks
rather than jobs in the
near term, and will also
create new kinds of jobs.

But the new jobs that
will emerge are harder to
imagine in advance than
the existing jobs that will
likely be lost.

39markets, which often have the effect of lowering barriers to entry and increasing
participation—from app stores to AirBnB to taskrabbit.

A vibrant research
community within AI studies further ways of creating new markets and making
existing ones operate more efficiently .

While work has intrinsic value, most people work to be able to purchase goods and
services they value.

Because AI systems perform work that previously required human
labor, they have the effect of lowering the cost of many goods and services, effectively
making everyone richer.

But as exemplified in current political debates, job loss is
more salient to people—especially those directly affected—than diffuse economic
gains, and AI unfortunately is often framed as a threat to jobs rather than a boon to
living standards.