Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1205
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

New algorithms for
personalized tutoring, such as Bayesian Knowledge Tracing, enable individualized
mastery learning and problem sequencing.83
Most surprising has been the explosion of the Massive Open Online Courses
(MOOCs) and other models of online education at all levels—including the use
of tools like Wikipedia and Khan Academy as well as sophisticated learning
management systems that build in synchronous as well as asynchronous education
and adaptive learning tools.

Since the late 1990s, companies such as the Educational
Testing Service and Pearson have been developing automatic NLP assessment tools to
co-grade essays in standardized testing.84 Many of the MOOCs which have become
so popular, including those created by EdX, Coursera, and Udacity , are making use
of NLP , machine learning, and crowdsourcing techniques for grading short-answer
and essay questions as well as programming assignments.85 Online education systems
that support graduate-level professional education and lifelong learning are also
expanding rapidly .

These systems have great promise because the need for face-to-face interaction is less important for working professionals and career changers.

While not
the leaders in AI-supported systems and applications, they will become early adopters
as the technologies are tested and validated.

It can be argued that AI is the secret sauce that has enabled instructors, particularly
in higher education, to multiply the size of their classrooms by a few orders of
magnitude—class sizes of a few tens of thousands are not uncommon.

In order to
continually test large classes of students, automated generation of the questions is
Physics Essay Writing,” Intelligent Tutoring Systems: Proceedings of the 6th International Conference , (Springer
Berlin Heidelberg, 2002), 158–167.

VanLehn et al, “The Architecture of Why2-Atlas.” “Resources and Support,” Carnegie Learning, carnegielearning.com/resources-support/ .

Alan Lesgold, Suzanne Lajoie, Marilyn Bunzo, and Gary Eggan, “SHERLOCK: A Coached
Practice Environment for an Electronics Troubleshooting Job,” in J.

H.

Larkin and R.

W .

Chabay ,
eds., Computer-Assisted Instruction and Intelligent Tutoring Systems: Shared Goals and Complementary Approaches Michael V .

Yudelson, Kenneth R.

Koedinger, and Geoffrey J.

Gordon, “ Individualized
Bayesian Knowledge Tracing Models,” Artificial Intelligence in Education , (Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
2013), 171–180.

Jill Burstein, Karen Kukich, Susanne Wolff, Chi Lu, Martin Chodorow, Lisa Braden-Harder,
and Mary Dee Harris, “ Automated Scoring Using a Hybrid Feature Identification Technique ” in
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association of Computational Linguistics , Montreal, Canada, August
1998, udacity .com/ , all is the secret sauce that
has enabled instructors,
particularly in higher
education, to multiply the
size of their classrooms
by a few orders of
magnitude—class sizes of
a few tens of thousands
are not uncommon.

33also possible, such as those designed to assess vocabulary ,86 wh (who/what/when/
where/why) questions,87 and multiple choice questions,88 using electronic resources
such as WordNet, Wikipedia, and online ontologies.

With the explosion of online
courses, these techniques are sure to be eagerly adopted for use in online education.

Although the long term impact of these systems will have on the educational system
remains unclear, the AI community has learned a great deal in a very short time.

Learning analytics
Data sets being collected from massive scale online learning systems, ranging from
MOOCs to Khan Academy , as well as smaller scale online programs, have fueled
the rapid growth of the field of learning analytics.

Online courses are not only good
for widespread delivery , but are natural vehicles for data collection and experimental
instrumentation that will contribute to scientific findings and improving the quality
of learning at scale.

Organizations such as the Society for Learning Analytics
Research (SOLAR), and the rise of conferences including the Learning Analytics and
Knowledge Conference89 and the Learning at Scale Conference (L@S)90 reflect this
trend.

This community applies deep learning, natural language processing, and other
AI techniques to analysis of student engagement, behavior, and outcomes.

Current projects seek to model common student misconceptions, predict
which students are at risk of failure, and provide real-time student feedback that is
tightly integrated with learning outcomes.

Recent work has also been devoted to
understanding the cognitive processes involved in comprehension, writing, knowledge
acquisition, and memory , and to applying that understanding to educational practice
by developing and testing educational technologies.

Challenges and opportunities
One might have expected more and more sophisticated use of AI technologies in
schools, colleges, and universities by now.

Much of its absence can be explained
by the lack of financial resources of these institutions as well as the lack of data
establishing the technologies’ effectiveness.

These problems are being addressed,
albeit slowly , by private foundations and by numerous programs to train primarily
secondary school teachers in summer programs.

As in other areas of AI, excessive
hype and promises about the capabilities of MOOCs have meant that expectations
frequently exceed the reality .

The experiences of certain institutions, such as San Jose
State University’s experiment with Udacity ,91 have led to more sober assessment of
the potential of the new educational technologies.

Jonathan C.

Brown, Gwen A.

Frishkoff , and Maxine Eskenazi, “ Automatic Question
Generation for Vocabulary Assessment,” Proceedings of Human Language Technology Conference and
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (HLT/EMNLP) , Vancouver, October
2005,, 819–826.