Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1170
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

Molly McHugh, “Tesla’s Cars Now Drive Themselves, Kinda,” Wired , October 14, 2015,
York Times , Last updated July 12, 2016, interactive/2016/07/01/business/inside-tesla-accident.html .

John Greenough, “10 million self-driving cars will be on the road by 2020,” Business Insider ,
June 15, 2016, driving-cars-will-be-on-the-road-by-2020-2015-5-6 .We will see self-driving and
remotely controlled delivery
vehicles, flying vehicles,
and trucks.

Peer-to-peer
transportation services
such as ridesharing are
also likely to utilize selfdriving vehicles.

21commuter in US spends twenty-five minutes driving each way .37 With self-driving car
technology , people will have more time to work or entertain themselves during their
commutes.

And the increased comfort and decreased cognitive load with self-driving
cars and shared transportation may affect where people choose to live.

The reduced
need for parking may affect the way cities and public spaces are designed.

Self-driving
cars may also serve to increase the freedom and mobility of different subgroups of
the population, including youth, elderly and disabled.

Self-driving cars and peer-to-peer transportation services may eliminate the need
to own a vehicle.

The effect on total car use is hard to predict.

Trips of empty vehicles
and people’s increased willingness to travel may lead to more total miles driven.

Alternatively , shared autonomous vehicles—people using cars as a service rather than
owning their own—may reduce total miles, especially if combined with well-constructed
incentives, such as tolls or discounts, to spread out travel demand, share trips, and
reduce congestion.

The availability of shared transportation may displace the need
for public transportation—or public transportation may change form towards
personal rapid transit, already available in four cities,38 which uses small capacity
vehicles to transport people on demand and point-to-point between many stations.39
As autonomous vehicles become more widespread, questions will arise over their
security , including how to ensure that technologies are safe and properly tested
under different road conditions prior to their release.

Autonomous vehicles and the
connected transportation infrastructure will create a new venue for hackers to exploit
vulnerabilities to attack.

Ethical questions are also involved in programming cars to
act in situations in which human injury or death is inevitable, especially when there
are split-second choices to be made about whom to put at risk.

The legal systems in
most states in the US do not have rules covering self-driving cars.

As of 2016, four
states in the US (Nevada, Florida, California, and Michigan), Ontario in Canada,
the United Kingdom, France, and Switzerland have passed rules for the testing
of self-driving cars on public roads.

Even these laws do not address issues about
responsibility and assignment of blame for an accident for self-driving and semi-selfdriving cars.40
Transportation planning
By 2005, cities had started investing in the transportation infrastructure to develop
sensing capabilities for vehicle and pedestrian traffic.41 The sensors currently used
include inductive loops, video cameras, remote traffic microwave sensors, radars, and
GPS.42 For example, in New York started using a combination of microwave
sensors, a network of cameras, and pass readers to detect vehicle traffic in the city .43 Brian McKenzie and Melanie Rapino, “Commuting in the United States: 2009,” American
Community Survey Reports , United States Census Bureau, September 2011, .

Morgantown, West Virginia; Masdar City , UAE; London, England; and Suncheon, South
Korea.

“Personal rapid transit,” Wikipedia , Last modified July 18, 2016, .

Patrick Lin, “The Ethics of Autonomous Cars,” The Atlantic , October 8, 2013, accessed
August 1, 2016,
autonomous-cars/280360/ .

Steve Lohr, “Bringing Efficiency to the Infrastructure,” The New York Times , April 29,
2009, environment/30smart.html .

“Intelligent transportation system,” Wikipedia , last modified July 28, 2016, .

Access Science Editors, “ Active traffic management: adaptive traffic signal control,” Access Science ,
2014, adaptive-traffic-signal-control/BR0106141 .Shared transportation
may displace the need for
public transportation—
or public transportation
may change form towards
personal rapid transit
that uses small capacity
vehicles to transport
people on demand.

22Cities use AI methods to optimize services in several ways, such as bus and subway
schedules, and tracking traffic conditions to dynamically adjust speed limits or apply
smart pricing on highways, bridges, and HOV lanes.44 46 Using sensors and cameras
in the road network, they can also optimize traffic light timing for improving traffic
flow and to help with automated enforcement.47 These dynamic strategies are aimed
at better utilizing the limited resources in the transportation network, and are made
possible by the availability of data and the widespread connectivity of individuals.

Before the 2000s, transportation planners were forced to rely on static pricing
strategies tied to particular days or times of day , to manage demand.

As dynamic
pricing strategies are adopted, this raises new issues concerning the fair distribution
of public goods, since market conditions in high-demand situations may make
services unavailable to segments of the public.

The availability of large-scale data has also made transportation an ideal domain
for machine learning applications.