Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 1196
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

On the negative side, there is already a major trend among
students to restrict their social contacts to electronic ones and to spend large amounts
of time without social contact, interacting with online programs.

If education also
occurs more and more online, what effect will the lack of regular, face-to-face contact
with peers have on students’ social development?

Certain technologies have even
been shown to create neurological side effects.95 On the other hand, autistic children
have benefited from interactions with AI systems already .96
LOW-RESOURCE COMMUNITIES
Many opportunities exist for AI to improve conditions for people in low-resource
communities in a typical North American city—and, indeed, in some cases it
already has.

Understanding these direct AI contributions may also inform potential
contributions in the poorest parts of the developing world.

There has not been a
significant focus on these populations in AI gatherings, and, traditionally , AI funders
have underinvested in research lacking commercial application.

With targeted incentives
and funding priorities, AI technologies could help address the needs of low-resource
communities.

Budding efforts are promising.

Counteracting fears that AI may contribute
to joblessness and other societal problems, AI may provide mitigations and solutions,
particularly if implemented in ways that build trust in them by the affected communities.

Machine learning, data mining approaches
Under the banner of “data science for social good,” AI has been used to create
predictive models to help government agencies more effectively use their limited
budgets to address problems such as lead poisoning,97 a major public health concern
that has been in the news due to ongoing events in Flint, Michigan.

Children may
be tested for elevated lead levels, but that unfortunately means the problem is only
detected after they have already been poisoned.

Many efforts are underway to use
predictive models to assist government agencies in prioritizing children at
risk, including those who may not yet have been exposed.98 Similarly , the Illinois
Department of Human Services (IDHS) uses predictive models to identify pregnant
women at risk for adverse birth outcomes in order to maximize the impact of
prenatal care.

The City of Cincinnati uses them to proactively identify and deploy
inspectors to properties at risk of code violations.

Scheduling, planning
Task assignment scheduling and planning techniques have been applied by many
different groups to distribute food before it spoils from those who may have excess,
such as restaurants, to food banks, community centers and individuals.99 Scientist have studied, for example, the way reliance on GPS may lead to changes in the
hippocampus.

Kim Tingley , “The Secrets of the Wave Pilots,” The New York Times , March 17, 2016,
pilots.html.

Judith Newman, “To Siri, With Love: How One Boy With Autism Became BFF With Apple’s
Siri,” The New York Times , October 17, 2014, com/2014/10/19/fashion/how-apples-siri-became-one-autistic-boys-bff.html.

Eric Potash, Joe Brew, Alexander Loewi, Subhabrata Majumdar, Andrew Reece, Joe Walsh,
Eric Rozier, Emile Jorgensen, Raed Mansour, and Rayid Ghani, “Predictive Modeling for Public
Health: Preventing Childhood Lead Poisoning,” Proceedings of the 21th ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (New York: Association for Computing Machinery ,
2015), 2039–2047.

Data Science for Social Good, University of Chicago, .

Senay Solak, Christina Scherrer, and Ahmed Ghoniem, “The Stop-and-Drop Problem in
Nonprofit Food Distribution Networks,” Annals of Operations Research , no.: With targeted incentives
and funding priorities, AI
technologies could help
address the needs of lowresource communities.

Budding efforts are
promising.

36Reasoning with social networks and influence maximization
Social networks can be harnessed to create earlier, less-costly interventions involving
large populations.

For example, AI might be able to assist in spreading healthrelated information.

In Los Angeles, there are more than 5,000 homeless youth (ages
thirteen-twenty-four).

Individual interventions are difficult and expensive, and the
youths’ mistrust of authority dictates that key messages are best spread through peer
leaders.

AI programs might be able to leverage homeless youth social networks to
strategically select peer leaders to spread health-related information, such as how to
avoid spread of HIV .

The dynamic, uncertain nature of these networks does pose
challenges for AI research.100 Care must also be taken to prevent AI systems from
reproducing discriminatory behavior, such as machine learning that identifies people
through illegal racial indicators, or through highly-correlated surrogate factors, such
as zip codes.

But if deployed with great care, greater reliance on AI may well result
in a reduction in discrimination overall, since AI programs are inherently more easily
audited than humans.

PUBLIC SAFETY AND SECURITY
Cities already have begun to deploy AI technologies for public safety and security .

By 2030, the typical North American city will rely heavily upon them.

These include
cameras for surveillance that can detect anomalies pointing to a possible crime,
drones, and predictive policing applications.

As with most issues, there are benefits
and risks.

Gaining public trust is crucial.

While there are legitimate concerns that
policing that incorporates AI may become overbearing or pervasive in some contexts,
the opposite is also possible.

AI may enable policing to become more targeted and
used only when needed.

And assuming careful deployment, AI may also help remove
some of the bias inherent in human decision-making .