Document: Artificial_Intelligence
Section: INTELLIGENCE?
Tokens: 884
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INTELLIGENCE?

As exemplified in the book and movie Moneyball , professional sport is now subjected
to intensive quantitative analysis.117 Beyond aggregate performance statistics, on-field
signals can be monitored using sophisticated sensors and cameras.

Software has been
created for composing music118 and recognizing soundtracks.119 Techniques from computer
vision and NLP have been used in creating stage performances.120 Even the lay user can
exercise his or her creativity on platforms such as WordsEye, which automatically
generates 3D scenes from natural language text.121 AI has also come to the aid of
historical research in the arts, and is used extensively in stylometry and, more recently ,
in the analysis of paintings.122
The enthusiasm with which humans have responded to AI-driven entertainment
has been surprising and led to concerns that it reduces interpersonal interaction
among human beings.

Few predicted that people would spend hours on end
interacting with a display .

Children often appear to be genuinely happier playing
at home on their devices rather than outside with their friends.

AI will increasingly
enable entertainment that is more interactive, personalized, and engaging.

Research
should be directed toward understanding how to leverage these attributes for
individuals’ and society’s benefit.

Second Life, Entertainment, Inc, Algorithms for Collaborative Filtering,” Proceedings of the 14th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial
Intelligence, Company , Inc., 2003): ).

MuseScore, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stylometry ; will increasingly enable
entertainment that is more
interactive, personalized,
and engaging.

Research
should be directed toward
understanding how to
leverage these attributes
for individuals’ and
society’s benefit.

41Imagining the Future
The success of any form of entertainment is ultimately determined by the individuals
and social groups that are its subjects.

The modes of entertainment that people find
appealing are diverse and change over time.

It is therefore hard to predict the forms
entertainment will take in the next fifteen years precisely .

Nevertheless, current trends
suggest at least a few features that the future entertainment landscape is likely to contain.

To date, the information revolution has mostly unfolded in software.

However,
with the growing availability of cheaper sensors and devices, greater innovation in the
hardware used in entertainment systems is expected.

Virtual reality and haptics could
enter our living rooms—personalized companion robots are already being developed.123
With the accompanying improvements in Automatic Speech Recognition, the Study
Panel expects that interaction with robots and other entertainment systems will become
dialogue-based, perhaps constrained at the start, but progressively more human-like.

Equally , the interacting systems are predicted to develop new characteristics such as
emotion, empathy , and adaptation to environmental rhythms such as time of day .124
Today , an amateur with a video camera and readily-available software tools can
make a relatively good movie.

In the future, more sophisticated tools and apps will
become available to make it even easier to produce high-quality content, for example,
to compose music or to choreograph dance using an avatar.

The creation and
dissemination of entertainment will benefit from the progress of technologies such as
ASR, dubbing, and Machine Translation, which will enable content to be customized
to different audiences inexpensively .

This democratization and proliferation of AIcreated media makes it difficult to predict how humans’ taste for entertainment, which
are already fluid, will evolve.

With content increasingly delivered digitally , and large amounts of data being
logged about consumers’ preferences and usage characteristics, media powerhouses
will be able to micro-analyze and micro-serve content to increasingly specialized
segments of the population—down to the individual.125 Conceivably the stage is set
for the emergence of media conglomerates acting as “Big Brothers” who are able to
control the ideas and online experiences to which specific individuals are exposed.

It remains to be seen whether broader society will develop measures to prevent their
emergence.

This topic, along with others pertaining to AI-related policy , is treated in
more detail in the next section.

Emoters, 995–1051.More sophisticated tools
and apps will become
available to make it
even easier to produce
high-quality content, for
example, to compose
music or to choreograph
dance using an avatar.