Document: Cybersecurity
Section: Cybersecurity
Tokens: 1204
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Cybersecurity

For government entities , these may be division - or branch- level considerations .

When
implementing the CSF, managers will focus on how to achieve risk targets through common
services, controls, and collaboration, as expressed in the Target Profile and improved through
the actions being tracked in the action plan (e.g., risk register, risk detail report, POA&M) .

Practitioners focus on implementing the target state and measuring changes in operational risk
to help plan, carry out, and monitor specific cybersecurity activities.

As controls are
implemented to manage risk at an acceptable level, practitioners provi de managers and
executives with the information (e.g., key performance indicators, key risk indicators) they need
to understand the organization’s cybersecurity posture, make informed decisions , and maintain
or adjust the risk strategy accordingly.

Executives can also combine this cybersecurity risk data
with information about other types of risk from across the organization.

Updates to
expectations and priorities are included in updated Organizational Profiles as the cycle repeats.

5.2.

Impr oving Integration with Other Risk Management Programs
Every organization faces numerous types of ICT risk (e.g., privacy, supply chain, artificial
intelligence ) and may use frameworks and management tools that are specific to each risk .

Some organizations integrate ICT and all other risk management efforts at a high level by using
ERM , while others keep the efforts separate to ensure adequate attention on each.

Small
NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
12 organizations by their nature may monitor risk at the enterprise level, while larger companies
may maintain separate risk management efforts integrated into the ERM.

Organizations can employ an ERM approach to balance a portfolio of risk considerations,
including cybersecurity , and make informed decisions .

Executives receive s ignificant input
about current and planned risk activities as they integrate governance and risk strateg ies with
results from previous uses of the CSF .

The CSF helps organizations to translate their
terminology for cybersecurity and cybersecurity risk management into general risk
management language that executives will understand.

NIST resources that describe the mutual relationship between cybersecurity risk management
and ERM include:
- NIST Cybersecurity Framework 2.0 – Enterprise Risk Management Quick -Start Guide
- NIST Interagency Report 8286, Integrating Cybersecurity and Enterprise Risk
Management
- IR 8286A, Identifying and Estimating Cybersecurity Risk for E nterprise Risk Management
- IR 8286B, Prioritizing Cybersecurity Risk for Enterprise Risk Management
- IR 8286C , Staging Cybersecurity Risks for Enterprise Risk Management and Governance
Oversight
- IR 8286D, Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform Risk Prioritization and Response
- SP 800- 221, Enterprise Impact of Information and Communications Technology Risk:
Governing and Managing ICT Risk Programs Within an Enterprise Risk Portfolio
- SP 800- 221A, Informati on and Communications Technology Risk Outcomes:
Integrating ICT Risk Management Programs with the Enterprise Risk Portfolio
An organization may also find the CSF beneficial for integrating cybersecurity risk management
with individual ICT risk management programs , such as :
- Cybersecurity risk management and assessment : The CSF can be integrated with
established cybersecurity risk management and assessment programs , such as SP 80037, Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations , and SP
800- 30, Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments fr om the NIST Risk Management
Framework.

For an organization using the NIST RMF and its suite of publications ,
the CSF can be used to complement the RMF’s approach to selecting and prioritizing
controls from SP 800 -5 3, Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and
Organizations .

- Privacy risk s: While cybersecurity and privacy are independent disciplines, their
objectives overlap in certain circumstances, as illustrated in NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
Cybersecurity risk management is essential for addressing privacy risks related to the
loss of the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of individuals’ data.

For example,
data breaches could lead to identity theft.

However, privacy risks can also arise by means that are unrelated to cybersecurity incidents .

An o rganization process es data to achieve mission or business purposes, which can
sometimes give rise to privacy events whereby individuals may experience problems as
a result of the data proces sing.

The se problems can be expressed in various ways, but
NIST describes them as ranging from dignity -type effects (e.g., embarrassment or
stigma ) to more tangible harms (e.g., discrimination, economic loss, or physical harm) .

The NIST Privacy Framework a nd Cybersecurity Framework can be used together to
address the different aspects of cybersecurity and privacy risks.

Additionally, NIST’s
Privacy Risk Assessment Methodology h as a catalog of example problems for
use in privacy risk assessment s.

- Suppl y chain risk s: An o rganization can use t he CSF to foster cybersecurity risk oversight
and communications with stakeholders across supply chains.

All types of technology rely
on a complex, globally distributed, extensive, and interconnected supply chain
ecosystem with geographically diverse routes and multiple levels of outsourcing.

This
ecosystem is composed of public - and private -sector entities (e.g., acquirers, suppliers,
developers, system integrators, external system service providers, and other technology -related service providers) that interact to research, develop, design,
manufacture, acquire, deliver, integrate, operate, maintain, dispose of, and otherwise utilize or manage technology products and services.

These interactions are shaped and influenced by technologies, laws, policies, procedures, and practices.

Given the complex and interconnected relationships in this ecosystem , supply chain risk
management is critical for organizations.