Document: Cybersecurity
Section: Cybersecurity
Tokens: 1196
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Cybersecurity

2.

A Target Profile specifies the desired outcomes that an organization has selected and
prioritized for achieving its cybersecurity risk manageme nt objectives.

A Target Profile
considers anticipated changes to the organization’s cybersecurity posture, such as new
requirements, new technology adoption, and threat intelligence trends.

A Community P rofile is a baseline of CSF outcomes that is created and published to address
shared intere sts and goals among a number of organizations .

A Community Profile is
typically developed for a particular sector , subsector, technology , threat type, or other use
case .

An organization can use a Community Profile as the basis for its own Target Profile .

Examples of Community Profiles can be found on the NIST CSF website .

The
steps shown in Fig.

3 and summarized below illustrate one way that an organization could
use an Organizational Profile to help inform continuous improvement of its cybersecurity.

NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
7 1.

Scope the Organizational Profile.

Document the high- level facts and assumptions on
which the Profile will be based to define its scope .

An organization can have as many
Organizational Profiles as desired , each with a different scope .

For example, a Profile
could address an entire organization or be scoped to an organization’s financial systems
or to countering ransomware threats and handling ransomware incidents involving
those financial systems.

2.

Gather the information needed to prepare the Organizational Profile.

Examples of
information may include organizational policies, risk management priorities and
resources, enterprise risk profiles, business impact analysis registers, cybersecurity
requirements and standards followed by the organization, practices and tools (e.g.,
procedures and safeguards), and work roles.

3.

Create the Organizational Profile.

Determine what types of information the Profile
should include for the selected CSF outcomes, and document the needed information.

Consider the risk implications of the Current Profile to inform Target Profile planning and prioritization.

Also, consider using a Community Profile as the basis for the Target
Profile.

4.

Analyze the gaps between the Current and Target Profiles , and create an action plan.

Conduct a gap analysis to i dentify and analyz e the differences between the Current and
Target Profiles , and develop a prioritized action plan (e.g., r isk register, risk detail report,
Plan of Action and Milestones [POA&M]) to address those gaps.

5.

Implement the action plan, and update the Organizational Profile.

Follow the action
plan to address the gaps and move the organization toward the Target Profile .

An action
plan may have an overall deadline or be ongoing.

Given the importance of continual improvement, an organization can repeat these steps as often as needed.

There are additional uses for Organizational Profiles.

For example, a Current Profile can be used
to document and communicate the organization’s cybersecurity capabilities and known opportunities for improvement with external stakeholders , such as business partners or
prospective customers.

Also, a Target Profile can help express the organization’s cybersecurity
risk management requirements and expectations to suppliers, partners, and other third parties
as a target for those parties to achieve .

3.2.

CSF Tiers
An o rganization can choose to use the Tiers to inform its Current and Target Profil es.

Tiers
characterize the rigor of an organization’s cybersecurity risk governance and management
practices , and they provide context for how an organization views cybersecurity risks and the
processes in place to manage those risks.

The Tiers , as shown in Fig.

4 and notionally illustrated
in Appendix B , reflect an organization’s practices for managing cybersecurity risk as Partial (Tier
1), Risk Informed (Tier 2), Repeatable (Tier 3), and Adaptive (Tier 4).

The Tiers describe a
progression from informal, ad hoc responses to approaches that are agile , risk-informed , and
NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
8 continuously improving .

Selecting Tiers helps set the overall tone for how an organization will
manage its cybersecurity risks .

Tiers should complement an organization’s cybersecurity risk management methodology rather
than replace it .

For example, an organization can use the Tiers to communicate internally as a
benchmark for a n organization -wide1
1 For the purposes of this document, the terms “organization -wide” and “enterprise” have the same meaning .

approach to managing cybersecurity risks .

Progression to
higher Tiers is encouraged when risks or mandates are greater or when a cost -benefit analysis
indicates a feasible and cost -effective reduction of negative cybersecurity risk s.

The NIST CSF website provides additional information on using Profiles a nd Tiers .

It includes
pointers to NIST -hosted O rganizational Profile templates and a repository of Community
Profiles in a variety of machine -read able and human -usable formats.

NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
9 4.

Introduction to Online Resources That Supplement the CSF
NIST and other organizations have produced a suite of online resources that help organizations
understand, adopt, and use the CSF .

Since they are hosted online, these additional resources
can be updated more frequently than this document, which is updated infrequently to provide
stability to its users, and be available in machine -readable formats.

This section provides an
overview of three types of online resources : Informative References, Implementation Examples,
and Quick Start Guides .

Informative References are mappings that indicat e relationships between the Core and various
standards, guidelines, regulations, and other content.

Informative References help inform how
an organization may achieve the Core’s outcomes .

Informative References can be sector - or
technology -specific.

They may be produced by NIST or another organization.