Document: Cybersecurity
Section: Cybersecurity
Tokens: 1202
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Cybersecurity

---

NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
1 1.

Cybersecurity Framework Overview
This document is version 2.0 of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework ( Framework or CSF).

It
includes the following components :
- CSF Core , the nucleus of the CSF, which is a taxonomy of high- level cybersecurity
outcomes that can help any organization manage its cybersecurity risk s.

The CSF Core
components are a hierarchy of Functions , Categor ies, and Subcategor ies that detail each
outcome.

These outcomes can be understood by a broad audience, including
executives, managers, and practitioners, regardless of their cybersecurity expertise.

Because the outcomes are sector -, country -, and technology -neut ral, they provide an
organization with the flexibility needed to address its unique risk s, technolog ies, and
mission considerations.

- CSF Organizational Profiles , which are a mechanism for describing an organization’s
current and/ or target cybersecurity posture in terms of the CSF Core’s outcomes.

- CSF Tiers , which can be applied to CSF Organizational Profiles to characterize the rigor of
an organization’s cybersecurity risk governance and management practices .

Tiers can
also provide context for how an organization views cybersecurity risks and the processes
in place to manage those risks.

This document describes what desirable outcomes an organization can aspire to achieve.

It
does not prescribe outcomes nor how they may be achieved.

Descriptions of how an
organization can achieve those outcomes are provided in a suite of online resources that
complement the CSF and are available through the NIST CSF website .

These resources offer
additional guidance on practices and controls that could be used to achieve outcome s and are
intended to help an organization understand, adopt, and use the CSF.

They include:
- Informative References that point to sources of guidance on each outcome from existing
global standards, guidelines, frameworks, regulations, policies, etc.

- Implementation Examples that illustrate potential ways to achieve each outcome
- Quick -Start Guides that give actionable guidance on using the CSF and its online
resources , including transitioning from previous CSF versions to version 2.0
- Community Profiles and Organizational Profile Templates that help an organization put
the CSF into practice and set priorities for managing cybersecurity risks
An organization can use the CSF Core, Profiles, and Tiers with the supplementary resources to
understand, assess, prioritize, and communicate cybersecurity risks .

- Understand and Assess: Describe the current or target cybersecurity posture of part or
all of an organization, determine gaps, and assess progress toward addressing those gaps.

NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
2 - Prioritize: Identify, organize, and prioritize actions for managing cybersecurity risks that
align with the organization’s mission, legal and regulatory requirements, and risk
management and governance expectations.

- Communicate: Provide a common language for communicating inside and outside the
organization about cybersecurity risks, capabilities, needs, and expectations.

The CSF is de signed to be used by organizations of all sizes and sectors, including industry,
government, academia, and nonprofit organizations, regardless of the maturity level of their cybersecurity programs.

The CSF is a foundational resource that may be adopted voluntarily
and through governmental policies and mandates .

The CSF’s taxonomy and referenced
standards, guidelines, and practices are not country -specific , and previous versions of the CSF
have been leveraged successfully by many governments and other organi zations both inside
and outside of the United States.

The CSF should be used in conjunction with other resources (e.g., frameworks, standards,
guidelines, leading practices ) to better manage cybersecurity risks and inform the overall
management of informat ion and communications technology risks at an enterprise level.

The CSF is a flexible framework that is intended to be tailored for use by all organizations
regardless of size .

Organizations will continue to have unique risks — including different threats
and vulnerabilities — and risk tolerances, as well as unique mission objectives and
requirements.

Thus, organizations’ approaches to managing risk s and their implementations of
the CSF will vary.

The remainder of this document is structur ed as follows :
- Section 2 explains the basics of the CSF Core: Functions, Categories, and Subcategories .

- Section 3 defines the concepts of CSF Profiles and Tiers.

- Section 4 provides an overview of selected components of the CSF’s suite of online
resources : Informative References, Implementation Examples, and Quick Start Guides .

- Section 5 discusses how an organization can integrat e the CSF with other risk
management programs .

- Appendix A is the CSF Core.

- Appendix B contains a notional illustration of the CSF Tiers.

- Appendix C is a glossary of CSF terminology.

NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
3 2.

Introduction to the CSF Core
Appendix A is the CSF Core — a set of cybersecurity outcomes arranged by Function, then
Category, and finally Subcategory , as depicted in actions to perform ; specific actions taken to achieve an outcome will vary by organization and
use case , as will the individual responsible for those actions.

Additionally, the order and size of
Functions, Categories, and Subcategories in the Core does not imply the sequence or
importance of achieving them .

The structure of the Core is intended to resonate most with
those charged with operationaliz ing risk management within an organization.

The CSF Core Functions — G OVERN , IDENTIFY , PROTECT , DETECT , RESPOND , and RECOVER — organize
cybersecurity outcomes at their highest level.

- GOVERN — The organization’s cybersecurity risk management strategy,
expectations, and policy are established, communicated, and monitored.