Document: Cybersecurity
Section: Cybersecurity
Tokens: 1153
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Cybersecurity

They may be produced by NIST or another organization.

S ome Informative
References are narrower in scope than a Subcategory.

For example, a particular control from SP
800- 53, S ecurity and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations , may be one of
many references needed to achieve the outcome described in one Subcategory.

Other
Informative References may be higher -level , such as a requirement from a polic y that partially
address es numerous Subcategor ies.

When using the CSF, an organization can identify the most
relevant Informative References.

Implementation Examples provide notional examples of concise, action- oriented steps to help
achieve the outcomes of the Subcategories.

Verbs used to express Examples include s hare,
document, develop, perform , monitor, analyze, assess, and exercise .

The Examples are not a
comprehensive list of all actions that could be taken by an organization to achieve an outcome,
nor do they re present a baseline of required actions to address cybersecurity risk s.

Quick -Start Guides (QSGs) are brief documents on specific CSF -related topics and are often
tailored to specific audiences .

QSGs can help an organization implement the CSF because they
distill specific portions of the CSF into actionable “ first steps ” that an organization can consider
on the path to impr oving their cybersecurity posture and management of associated risks.

The
guides are revised i n their own time frames, and new guides are added as need ed.

Suggestions for new Informative References for CSF 2.0 can always be shared with NIST at
olir@nist.gov .

Suggestions for other resources to reference on the NIST CSF website, including
additional QSG topics, should be directed to cyberframew ork@nist.gov .

NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
10 5.

Improving Cybersecurity Risk Communication and Integration
The CSF’s use will vary based on an organization’s unique mission and risks .

With an
understanding of stakeholder expectations and risk appetite and tolerance (as outlined in
GOVERN ), an organization can prioritize cybersecurity activities to make informed decisions
about cybersecurity expenditures and actions .

An o rganization may choose to handle risk in one
or more ways — including mitigating , transferring, avoiding, or accepting negative risks and
realizing, sharing, enhancing, or accepting positive risks — depending on the potential impact s
and likelihoods .

Importantly, an organization can use the CSF both internally to manage its
cybersecurity capabilities and externally to oversee or communicate with third parties.

Regardles s of the CSF’s utilization , an organization may benefit from using the CSF as guidance
to help it understand, assess, prioritize, and communicate cybersecurity risks and the actions
that will manage those risks.

The selected outcomes can be used to focus on and implement
strategic decisions to improve cybersecurity posture s and maintain continuity of mission essential functions while taking priorities and available resources into account.

5.1.

Improv ing Risk Management Communication
The CSF provides a basis for improved communication regarding cybersecurity expectations,
planning, and resources.

The CSF fosters bidirectional information flow (as shown in the top
half of Fig.

5) between executives who focus on the organization’s priorities and strategic
direction and managers who manage specific cybersecurity risks that could affect the
achievement of those priorities .

The CSF also supports a similar flow (as shown in the bottom
half of Fig.

5) between managers and the practitioners who implement and operate the
technologies .

The lef t side of the figure indicates the importance of practitioners sharing their
updates, insights, and concerns with managers and executives.

NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
11 Preparing to creat e and us e Organizational Profiles involve s gathering information about
organizational priorities, resources, and risk direction from executives .

Managers then
collaborate with practitioners to communicate business needs and create risk -informed
Organizational Profiles.

Actions to close any gaps identified between the Current and Target
Profiles will be implemented by managers and practitioners and will provide key inputs into
system -level plans.

As the target state is achieved throughout the organization — including
through controls and monitoring applied at the system level — the updated results can be
shared through risk registers and progress reports.

As part of ongoing assessment, managers
gain insights to make adjustments that further reduce potential harm s and increase potential
benefits.

The GOVERN Function supports organizational risk communication with executives .

Executives’
discussion s involve strategy, particularly how cybersecurity- related uncertainties might affect
the achievement of organizationa l objectives.

These governance discussions support dialogue
and agreement about risk management strateg ies (including cybersecurity supply chain risk);
roles , responsibilities, and authorities; policies; and oversight.

As executives establish
cybersecurity priorities and objectives based on those needs, they communicate expectations
about risk appetite, accountability , and resources .

Executives are also responsible for
integrating cybersecurity risk management with ERM programs and lower -level risk
management programs (see Sec.

5.2 ).

The communications reflected in the top half of Fig.

5 can
include considerations for ERM and the lower -level programs and, thus , inform managers and
practitioners .

The overall cybersecurity objectives set by executives are informed by and cascade to
managers .

In a commer cial entity, these may apply to a line-of-business or operating division.

For government entities , these may be division - or branch- level considerations .