Document: Cybersecurity
Section: Cybersecurity
Tokens: 1189
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Cybersecurity

- GOVERN — The organization’s cybersecurity risk management strategy,
expectations, and policy are established, communicated, and monitored.

The GOVERN
Function provides outcomes to inform what an organization may do to achieve and
prioritize the outcomes of the other five Functions in the context of its mission and
stakeholder expectations .

Governance activities are critical for incorporating
cybersecurity into an organization’s broader enterprise risk management
strategy.

GOVERN addres ses an understanding of organizational context ; the
establishment of cybersecurity strategy and cybersecurity supply chain risk
management; roles, responsibilities, and authorities; polic y; and the oversight of
cybersecurity strategy .

- IDENTIFY — The organization’s current cybersecurity risk s are understood.

Understanding the organization’s assets ( e.g., data, hardware , software, systems,
facilities, services, people) , suppliers, and related cybersecurity risks enables an
organization to prioritize its efforts consistent with its risk management strategy and the
mission needs identified under GOVERN .

This Function also includes the identification of
NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
4 improvement opportunities for the organization’s policies, plans, processes, procedures ,
and practices that support cybersecurity risk management to inform efforts under all six
Functions .

- PROTECT — Safeguards to manage the organization’s cybersecurity risk s are used.

Once assets and risks are identified and prioritized , PROTECT supports the ability to
secure those assets to prevent or lower the likelihood and impact of adverse
cybersecurity events , as well as to increase the likelihood and impact of taking
advantage of opportunities .

Outcomes covered by this Function include identity
management, authentication, and access control; awareness and training; data security;
platform security (i.e., securing the hardware, software, and services of physical and
virtual platforms ); and the resilience of technology infrastructure.

- DETECT — Possible cybersecurity attacks and compromises are found and analyzed.

DETECT enables the timely discovery and analysis of anomalies, indicators of
compromise, and other potentially adverse events that may indicate that cybersecurity
attacks and incidents are occurring .

This Function supports success ful incident response
and recovery activities .

- RESPOND — Action s regarding a detected cybersecurity inciden t are taken.

RESPOND
supports the ability to contain the effects of cybersecurity incidents.

Outcomes within
this Function cover incident management, analysis, mitigation, reporting , and
communication.

- RECOVER — Assets and operations affected by a cybersecurity incident are restored .

RECOVER supports the timely restoration of normal operations to reduce the effects of
cybersecurity incidents and enable appropriate communication during recovery efforts .

For example, an organization will categorize assets under I DENTIFY and take steps to secure
those assets under P ROTECT .

Investments in planning and testing in the G OVERN and IDENTIFY
Functions will support timely detection of unexpected events in the D ETECT Function, as well as
enabling incident response and recovery action s for cybersecurity incidents in the RESPOND and
RECOVER Functions.

GOVERN is in the center of the wheel because it informs how an organization
will implement the other five Functions.

While many cybersecurity risk management activities focus on pre venting negative events
from occurring , they may also support taking advantage of positive opportunities .

Actions to
reduce cybersecurity risk might benefit an organization in other ways, like increasing
revenue (e.g., first offering excess facility space to a commercial hosting provider for hosting
their own and other organizations’ data centers, then moving a major financial system from
the organization’s in -house data center to the hosting provider to reduce cybersecurity
risks).

NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
The Functions should be addressed concurrently.

Actions that support GOVERN , IDENTIFY , PROTECT ,
and DETECT should all happen continuously, and actions that support RESPOND and RECOVER
should be ready at all times and happen when cybersecurity incidents occur.

All Functions have
vital roles related to cybersecurity incidents .

GOVERN , IDENTIFY , and PROTECT outcomes help
prevent and prepare for incidents, while G OVERN , DETECT , RESPOND , and RECOVER outcomes help
discover and manage incidents.

Each Function is named after a verb that summarizes its contents .

Each Function is divided into
Categories , which are related cybersecurity outcomes that collectively comprise the Function .

Subcategories further divide each Category into more specific outcomes of technical and
management activities.

The Subcategories are not exhaustive, but they describe detailed
outcomes that support each Category.

The Functions, Categories, and Subcategories appl y to al l ICT used by an organization, including
information technology, the Internet of Things (IoT), and operational technology.

They
also apply to all types of technology environments, including cloud, mobile, and artificial
intelligence systems.

The CSF Core is forward -looking and intended to apply to future changes
in technologies and environments.

NIST CSWP 29 February 26, 2024
6 3.

Introduction to CSF Profiles and Tiers
This section defines the concepts of CSF Profiles and Tiers.

3.1.

CSF Profiles
A CSF Organizational Profile describ es an organization’s current and/ or target cybersecurity
posture in terms of the Core’s outcomes .

Organizational Profiles are used to understand, tailor,
assess, prioritize, and communicate the Core ’s outcomes by considering an organization’s
mission objectives, stakeholder expectations, threat landscape, and requirements .

An
organization can then prioritize its actions to achieve specific outcomes and communicate that
information to stakeholders.

Every Organizational Profile includes one or both of the following :
1.

A Cur rent Profile specifies the Core outcomes that an organization is currently achieving
(or attempting to achieve) and characterizes how or to what extent each outcome is
being achieved.

2.