Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1188
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

Random rewards in the form of likes on Insta gram or TikTok or the adrenaline rush of clickbait are
essentially cognitive hacks that lie at the heart of most
real-life casinos (see chapter in the full Report).40
Mental wellbeing is under assault
Mental wellbeing is an important, complex issue
globally without any single driver, technological or
otherwise.

Mental distress, whose prevention is a critical aspect of overall mental wellbeing, is aggra vated by uncertainties and insecurities of all stripes:
by major Anthropocene phenomena, such as climate
change; by age-old scourges of discrimination, exclu sion, conflict and violence; and by relatively newer
entrants, such as social media and other technologies.

The uncertainties of the Anthropocene are expect ed to undermine people’s mental wellbeing through
four main pathways: traumatizing events, physical
illness, general climate anxiety and food insecurity
(see chapter in the full Report).

The effects these
and other pathways have on children in particular
are profound, altering brain and body development,
especially in families on lower social rungs, poten tially diminishing what children can achieve in life.

The 2019 Human Development Report explored how
inequalities in human development are perpetuated
across generations;41 it is not difficult to see how the
confluence of mental distress, inequality and inse curity foment a similarly injurious intergenerational
cycle that drags on human development.

“ The uncertainties of the Anthropocene
are expected to undermine people’s mental
wellbeing through four main pathways:
traumatizing events, physical illness, general
climate anxiety and food insecurity
Violence — even the threat of violence, its
uncertainty — is a major driver of mental distress.

Some survivors of and witnesses to violence suffer
trauma, which if not addressed properly can devel op into post-traumatic stress disorder, among other
chronic health conditions, that can weigh heavily on
the choices available to them.

Violence may be di rected at one person or group of people, but it affects
everybody in its blast radius.

Even perpetrators of
violence can suffer trauma due to the violent setting
that often surrounds them, as with organized crime
or gang violence.42
The losses exacted by violence extend well beyond
direct physical, mental and emotional injury or trau ma.

Violence can cause and exacerbate all kinds of
insecurities — food, economic and so forth — that are
themselves major drivers of mental distress.

Many
kinds of violence, from interpersonal violence to or ganized crime to armed conflict, perniciously under mine trust in people we know and in people we do not
know.

Breakdowns in trust may then beget more in stability, more violence.

“ Mental disorders weigh on human development
in many ways.

A health issue themselves, they are
often linked to other health challenges.

They can
impede school attendance and learning, as well
as the ability to find a job and be fully productive
at it.

The stigma that often accompanies
mental disorders makes matters worse
Then there is the loss of agency due to violence.

The
complex interplay of forces, rooted in asymmetries of
power, is powerfully at work in intimate partner vio lence, whose survivors are predominately women
and which is correlated with some measures of wom en’s economic dependence (see chapter in the full
Report).

Channels of dominance at the societal and
institutional levels can take concentrated, wicked
forms — especially for women, children and older
people — behind what are meant to be the safe walls
of a home, leaving those subjected to domestic abuse
with either the perception or the reality of no escape.

The ensuing entrapment of people violates human
rights, constrains agency and ultimately undercuts
our collective ability to navigate a turbulent new era.

As it has been in so many ways, the Covid-19 pan demic is ominously illustrative.

During the first year
of the pandemic, the global prevalence of depres sion and anxiety increased by more than percent.43
Low-income people, especially those who struggle
to afford basic needs such as rent and food, suffered
disproportionally in several countries.44 Women, who
assumed most of the additional domestic and care
work that emerged during school closures and lock downs,45 faced much higher mental distress than be fore the crisis.46
Stressors need not reach the level of globalized
trauma to cause mental distress.

In fact, one of the
most serious economic threats to mental wellbeing
seems to stem from repeated financial shocks, such
as income loss, especially for poor people and for
men.47 Economic insecurity — or just the perception
of such insecurity, even if transitory — is a major fac tor.

Mental distress is one reason why economic dis locations, whether from globalization or automation
or phasing out fossil fuels, carry some large, underap preciated risks.Mental disorders, such as post-traumatic stress
disorder and depression, can develop when men tal distress is severe and untreated.

Almost billion
people — roughly one in eight of us — live with a men tal disorder,48 providing a lower-bound estimate of
the broader problem of mental distress.

Globally,
mental health issues are the leading cause of disabil ity.

Yet, of those who need mental health attention
or treatment, only about percent receive it.49 On
average, countries spend less than percent of their
healthcare budgets on mental health.50
Mental disorders weigh on human development in
many ways.

A health issue themselves, they are often
linked to other health challenges.