Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1171
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

More countercyclical social protection measures
can be automatically triggered by certain indicators,
such as the loss of a job or a drop in income, while
ensuring their inclusivity.

Such measures played im portant roles in many countries in protecting people
from some of the worst impacts of the global financial
Opportunities for broad participation Macroprudential policies
Social protection
Access to basic services
Protection of human rights
Public deliberationAdaptive peacebuilding
Social innovation
Addressing misinformation and enhancing media literacy
Data and measurementsEnergy eﬃciency
Insurance
InnovationInvestmentProvision of global public goods
Nature-based human development
Preparation to face environmental changes
crisis and the Covid-19 pandemic.

One of the bene fits of automatic triggers is that they require less polit ical wrangling at already stressful moments, helping
target political capital to the unique features of a new
challenge rather than continually plugging holes in
leaky safety nets.

Universal basic services, such as health and edu cation, are important investments in their own right,
as evidenced in the Sustainable Development Goals,
and for inclusively expanding human development.

They also afford an important insurance function,
helping stabilize people in the face of seemingly re lentless shocks.

This can encourage experimentation.

People are loath to try new things if doing so risks
their or their family’s health and education and
threatens to yank them irreversibly down a yawning
socioeconomic ladder.

“ Innovation will be at the heart of
successfully navigating the many unforeseen,
unknowable challenges ahead
Investments in preparedness, not just for shocks
but also for societal transitions, can be well worth the
cost.

Equally important are investments in promot ing and protecting human rights and in deliberative
mechanisms that enable public reasoning in a par ticipatory, inclusive way.

Together they help insure
against polarization.

Innovation will be at the heart of successfully navi gating the many unforeseen, unknowable challenges
ahead.

Some readymade tools will help, others will be
modified and updated for new contexts and still oth ers will be built from scratch.

In part, innovation has
to do with new technologies and ensuring that they
reach everyone.

Computational capacities amount ing to millions of Apollo missions to the moon are
now in the hands of everyone with a smartphone,
which is just about everybody.62 In developing coun tries mobile phones have reshaped financial transfers
and access to information, such as weather forecasts
and wholesale market prices.

New insurance models
are needed that respond to complex new risk para digms: risks that are increasingly synchronized across
geographies and sectors, that span generations and
that harm natural resources.

The “right” role for governments in innovation is
an important question, and governments have big roles in fostering climates for innovation.

There was
widespread support when governments threw their
full weight behind Covid-19 vaccines, committing
to staggering prepurchase orders of then-unprov en technologies.

Governments were a driving force
and active development and distribution partner
throughout, ushering in and deploying a lifesaving
new technology at astonishing speed.

(The contrast
with the relatively anaemic action on climate change,
no less an emergency than Covid-19, is stark.) Inno vation policy frameworks, which are intimately tied
to other areas such as competition and patent laws,
have enormous implications across sectors, from
access to medicines and energy to food and water
security.

Innovation does not have to be big to produce big
results.

Major social media platforms have enact ed policies such as notices, warnings and links to
resources in a bid to combat misinformation.

For
example, links to official information by the World
Health Organization are suggested under posts men tioning Covid-19 on Instagram, Facebook, YouTube
and TikTok.

Twitter reminds users when they are
sharing an article without opening the link first (see
chapter in the full Report).

Fact-checking initiatives
have been created by users on these same platforms,
and media plurality has been strengthened through
new and independent outlets that could not exist or
have the means to inform in the traditional media
landscape, often at the local and grassroot levels.

Governments can also take prudent steps to combat
misinformation while respecting and promoting peo ple’s human rights and freedoms.

Sometimes the answer might not be complex.

The
simple addition of the retweet button on Twitter has
enabled information, including misinformation, to go
viral.

Modifying its use, as some have argued, could
go a long way in curbing some of the more troubling
features of social media.63 Course correcting in this
way — practical solutions to practical problems — will
be key to navigating the new uncertainty complex.

Innovation is more than technologies as we un derstand them conventionally in terms of vaccines
or smartphones.

Equally important is social innova tion, which is a whole-of-society endeavour.

Adap tive peacebuilding, which focuses on emergent
bottom-up, participatory processes rather than ad hering to a set recipe, is a case in point.64 Much can be
learned from its application in Rwanda for healing,
transitional justice and conflict resolution (see chap ter in the full Report).

Cultural change opens opportunities for collective action
Policies and institutions are embedded in social con texts, so aspects such as narratives matter a lot, too.

Everyone is immersed in social contexts, with cul ture understood not as a fixed variable working in the
background but as a toolkit that changes over time
and that individuals and groups use strategically in
society.