Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1201
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

If uncertainty forms storm
clouds over all aspects of human development, then it
hurls lightning bolts at the idea of agency.

It can disem power.

Choices mediate the translation of one’s values
and commitments into achievements, but the idea of
choice becomes ever more abstract, no matter how for mally educated or healthy we may be, if we doubt that
the choices we make will yield the outcomes we desire.

Losing perceived control rather than simply not having
it in the first place has its own negative consequences,
as do the knock-on effects: a tendency to identify cul prits or villains, a distrust of institutions and elites, and
greater insularity, nationalism and social discord.

Un certainty can turn up the heat on a toxic brew.

Technology use is a double-edged sword
Powerful new technologies turn it up further.

From
the news, products and advertisements served up
to us to the relationships we build online and in real
life, more and more of our lives are being determined Development Index (HDI) countries
Human Development Index (HDI) value, 2021Increase in
perceived insecurity
Reduction in
perceived insecurityVery high HDI
countriesHigh HDI
countriesMedium HDI
countriesLow HDI
countries0.15
–0.05
–0.10Change in Index of Perceived Human Insecurity valuea a.

Refers to the change in Index of Perceived Human Security value between waves and of the World Values Survey for countries with compa rable data.

by algorithms and, in particular, by artificial intel ligence.

For people who are online, every aspect of
their lives becomes commodifiable data, raising wor rying questions about who has access to what infor mation, especially sensitive personal information,
and how it is being used.36
The political, commercial and personal all get mixed
together in social media, which is full of loud echo
chambers because they draw eyeballs, which draws advertising and other revenues.

At least half the on line noise is from bots designed to stir the pot.37 Misin formation moves faster and farther than information
that has been subjected to reasoned scrutiny, sowing
distrust and fanning perhaps the gravest kind of un certainty: not knowing how to distinguish between
the two.

Making the distinction goes beyond clear-cut
objectivism or the reliance on an agreed set of univer sal facts, scientific or otherwise.

Motivated reasoning, countries enduring a decline in 2020 or 2021
1991 1993 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021Share of countries for which an
HDI value was calculated that experienced
a decline in HDI value in that year (%)Global
ﬁnancial crisis
51Covid-19
pandemic
UNESCO Institute for Statistics (2022), UNSD (2022) and World Bank (2022).

low, medium and high Human Development Index (HDI) countries saw continued declines in the second year
Very high HDIHigh HDILow and medium HDI
Share of countries in each group for which an HDI value was calculated that experienced a decline in HDI value
UNESCO Institute for Statistics (2022), UNSD (2022) and World Bank (2022).

in which people select facts, experts and other trusted
sources of information that confirm their already-held
beliefs, is widespread across political spectra and edu cation levels (see chapter in the full Report).

Polariza tion can take dangerous forms when different groups
operate with entirely different sets of facts and, thus,
realities, especially when those realities are bound up
with group identities.

Technologies then turn mere dis agreements into pitched battles for survival (see chap ter in the full Report).

Given the ways technology use can aggravate at the
societal level, its harmful effects at the community and
individual levels may come as no surprise.

As it is in so
many parts of our lives, technology is a double-edged
sword.

Artificial intelligence will both create and destroy
tasks, causing tremendous disruption.

Synthetic biology
opens new frontiers in health and medicine while rais ing fundamental questions about what it means to be
human.

From the invention of writing to Gutenberg’s
printing press to Marconi’s first radio transmissions,
technologies have been connecting people ever fast er in new ways, now instantaneously and across great
distances.

Today, telemedicine is especially valuable
in digitally connected rural areas and has been vital for
mental and physical health during the pandemic.38
At the same time, rather paradoxically, technology
can isolate.

Internet use has been found to reduce of fline interaction, political participation and various
forms of civic and cultural engagement.39 The con sequences of substituting the digital for the real are
complex and will be made more so as virtual worlds
— the metaverse — take up more real estate.

Cyberbul lying is an issue on social media, and angry Twitter
mobs, mobilized sometimes by disinformation, can
digitally tar and feather someone faster than in real
life.

Sometimes that spills over into real-life violence
or into real-life policy.

Digital addiction is a real con cern.

Random rewards in the form of likes on Insta gram or TikTok or the adrenaline rush of clickbait are
essentially cognitive hacks that lie at the heart of most
real-life casinos (see chapter in the full Report).40
Mental wellbeing is under assault
Mental wellbeing is an important, complex issue
globally without any single driver, technological or
otherwise.