Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1132
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

Still, we must reach for broader perspec tives of human decisionmaking, ones that consider
the roles of emotions and culture and that explore
how people weave together and change value-infused
narratives about themselves and the various commu nities they belong to.

For example, our relationship
with nature needs renovation, and cultural narratives
are the foundation.“ To respond creatively and nimbly to
today’s uncertainty complex, we need to
bring down barriers to people’s imaginations,
identities and networks, to expand the
idea of what is possible in people’s lives
Just as we must widen the vista on human behav iour, notions of human development must go beyond
a focus on wellbeing achievements, however impor tant they still are, to include the vital roles of agency
and freedoms in helping people live lives that they
value (see chapter in the full Report).

Doing so illu minates the apparent paradoxes of our age: progress
with insecurity and progress with polarization.

A com prehensive embrace of human development can act as
a lodestar through turbulent times when cookie-cut ter policy lists simply will not do.

To respond crea tively and nimbly to today’s uncertainty complex, we
need to bring down barriers to people’s imaginations,
identities and networks, to expand the idea of what is
possible in people’s lives.

While crises can present op portunities for pathbreaking action, we will be better
off operating deliberately and proactively rather than
in a chronic state of emergency response.

In an age of
layered and interacting uncertainties, freedoms may
not translate reliably into desired achievements or
outcomes.

That is the unfortunate news.

But individ uals, families and communities can be empowered to
experiment, to try new things, for their benefit and for
others, without fear of being trapped in poverty, in a
single identity or in one cultural narrative.

Rigidities in their many dimensions — in ideas, in
networks, in narratives — act as a vise on human cre ativity; they constrain the generation of new ideas
in response to a changing world.

Agency and free doms are antidotes.

Policies, institutions and cultural
change that promote them tend to be fostered by cul tivating four motivating principles: flexibility, solidar ity, creativity and inclusion (see also chapter in the
full Report).

These principles, which can reinforce
one another, will go a long way in making policies and
institutions more fit for purpose.

The four principles can also have their own inter nal tensions.

Building systems with some stabilizing
redundancies, for example, needs to be balanced
against nimble response capacities.

Still, it is hard
to be quick on one’s feet if one is constantly getting
knocked over by a financial meltdown, novel virus or
monster hurricane.

Similarly, there is a give and take
to creative exploration and concerted, purposeful
action anchored in human rights.

Striking the right
balance among the four motivating principles will be
key, and trust is essential to doing so.

People will be
suspicious of the negotiation table if they fear that the
chair will be constantly jerked out from under them.

Policy development will be an iterative, trial-and-er ror process in which we must all learn from each
other.

Policies and institutions to invest, insure and innovate
There are no policy panaceas, no one-size-fits-all
approaches.

Even so, some policies form the build ing blocks for countries and communities as they
navigate today’s uncertainty complex towards more
hopeful futures.

They fall into three overlapping, mu tually reinforcing categories: investment, insurance
and innovation — the Three I’s (figure 10; see also
chapter in the full Report).

Investment should connect the dots.

Nature-based
human development can protect and enhance natural
resources while protecting people from shocks, pro moting economic and food security and expanding
the choices available to them.

Such investments are
especially relevant at the local level, speaking to the need for investing in governance that is connected to
people on the ground, that builds bridges among pol icy and institutional silos and that ensures all voices
are heard.

Investments are needed, too, on the other
end — in global public goods.

The new uncertain ty complex is often driven by global phenomena, so
responding to it can require global cooperation.

The
additional investment to avoid future pandemics is
estimated to be only $15 billion a year.60 This is a tiny
fraction of the economic cost of the Covid-19 pan demic, a cost that exceeds $7 trillion in lost produc tion and $16.9 trillion in emergency fiscal responses.61
Investments in global pandemic preparedness make
good sense, given the devastating human costs.

Insurance provides an essential stabilizing force
in the face of uncertainty.

To start, structures that
manage a variety of risk in people’s lives, primarily
in various forms of social protection, need to be re vitalized and modernized, including for people in in formal or other precarious employment, such as gig
workers.

We need to reverse course away from risk
segmentation and move towards a broader sharing of
risk.

More countercyclical social protection measures
can be automatically triggered by certain indicators,
such as the loss of a job or a drop in income, while
ensuring their inclusivity.