Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1204
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

The groups most likely to be left behind face a world with complex new uncertainties in which most
of those uncertainties are directed at them, heaped
on persistent discrimination and human rights viola tions.31 It is not just that typhoons are getting bigger
and deadlier through human impact on the environ ment; it is also as if, through our social choices, their
destructive paths are being directed at the most vul nerable among us.

Feelings of distress are on the rise nearly everywhere
An analysis of more than million books published
over the last years in three major languages shows
a sharp increase in expressions of anxiety and worry
in many parts of the world (figure 5).32 Other research
on smaller time scales reports steady increases in
concerns about uncertainty since 2012, well before
the Covid-19 outbreak.330.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.0
Political p olarization in 2011Political p olarization in 2021
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean
Middle East and North Africa
Sub-Saharan Africa
Western Europe and North America
Asia and the PaciﬁcBeing placed above the line
means that polarization
increased from 2011 to 2021
Earlier this year, the United Nations Development
Programme’s Special Report on Human Security found
similarly troubling levels of perceived insecurity.

Even
before the Covid-19 pandemic, more than in people
at the global level felt insecure.34 Perceived human in security is high across all Human Development Index
(HDI) groups, and it has increased, even in some very
high HDI countries (figure 6).

Polarization has moved
in tandem in recent years.

In parallel, there is a break down of trust: globally, fewer than percent of peo ple think that most people can be trusted, the lowest
value on record (see chapter in the full Report).

These and other data paint a puzzling picture in
which people’s perceptions about their lives and their
societies stand in stark contrast to historically high
measures of aggregate wellbeing, including long standing multidimensional measures of wellbeing,
such as the HDI and other indices that accompany
this Report.

In sum, twin paradoxes: progress with in security and progress with polarization.

What is going on?

Too often the answer is reduced to fault-finding in quiries about whether the data or the people are wrong.

Most likely, neither.

Although people tend to express a
holistic view of their lived experience, the questions asked about their lives often focus on specific, measur able subsets of that experience: years of schooling, life
expectancy, income.

However important these metrics
are — and they are — they do not capture the totality of
a lived experience.

Nor were they ever intended to re flect the full concept of human development, which
goes well beyond achievements in wellbeing, such as
reducing poverty or hunger, to include equally impor tant notions of freedoms and agency, which together
expand the sense of possibility in people’s lives.

Nor do
individual achievements necessarily capture social co hesion and trust, which matter to people in their own
right and for working together towards shared goals.

In
short, the twin paradoxes invite a hard look at narrow
conceptions of “progress.”
The 2019 Human Development Report empha sized going beyond averages to understand the wide
and growing variation in capabilities within many
countries.

It identified widening gaps in enhanced
capabilities, such as access to higher education and
life expectancy at age 70, gaps that might also help
explain the apparent disconnect between what peo ple say about their lives and what we measure about
them.

These are not either-or explanations; all are
possible, even probable.35English, United States
(90% conﬁdence interval)
Spanish (95% conﬁdence interval)
German (95% conﬁdence interval)
Null-model (95% conﬁdence interval)
–0.5z-score
World
War IWall Street crashWorld
War IIGreat
Recession tortions, published in  million books in English, Spanish and German over the past years.

The prevalence of these word sequences in publications are
converted to z-scores for comparability.

They are compared with a null-model that accounts for over-time changes in publication volumes and standards.

Capabilities face more volatile futures while becom ing ever more important for helping people navigate
the systemic uncertainties of a new epoch.

Achieving
gains may become harder, securing them harder still.

Backsliding may become more sudden or common or
both; it has already become evident during the Covidpandemic.

For the first time on record, the glob al HDI value declined, taking the world back to the
time just after the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement.

Every year a few different countries experience dips in
their respective HDI values.

But a whopping percent of countries saw their HDI value drop in either
2020 or 2021 (figure 7), far exceeding the number that
experienced reversals in the wake of the global finan cial crisis.

Last year saw some recovery at the global
level, but it was partial and uneven: most very high
HDI countries notched improvements, while most of
the rest experienced ongoing declines (figure 8).

The goal of human development is to help people
lead lives they value by expanding their capabilities,
which go beyond wellbeing achievements to include agency and freedoms.

If uncertainty forms storm
clouds over all aspects of human development, then it
hurls lightning bolts at the idea of agency.