Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1121
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

Everyone is immersed in social contexts, with cul ture understood not as a fixed variable working in the
background but as a toolkit that changes over time
and that individuals and groups use strategically in
society.

When it comes to choices about the future, people
appear to be motivated less by accurate scenarios of
what the future may hold than by collectively held
narratives.65 Much of the current information about
the future, in the form of assessments, such as those
issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change or Intergovernmental Science-Policy Plat form on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services,66 are
anticipatory.

As crucial as they are, it is important to
consider also having assessments towards imagining
more desirable futures.67
The importance of culture is finding its way into
many other areas, including economics and law.

The
work of Robert Shiller explains dynamics in asset
prices as well as business cycles in terms of “narrative
economics.”68 Karla Hoff and James Walsh suggest
that law affects behaviour not only by changing in centives and information (a coordination function) or
through its expressive role (as a guidepost for social
norms) but also with the potential to change cultural
categories.69
Shifting culture, for good or ill, is possible and can
happen quickly.

Education can be a powerful tool to
open the potential for new perspectives in younger
generations, not just through curricula but also by en visaging schools as spaces of inclusion and diversity.

Social recognition by elites of all types, from politi cians and celebrities to social media influencers and
community leaders, is an important mechanism for
cultural change.

Media in its many forms plays a big
role here.

In Bangladesh a popular animated televi sion show reduced the cultural and religious stigma
of girls going to school in rural areas and increased
their attendance.70 In Ghana and Kenya the Time to Change campaign made inroads into reducing men tal health stigma.71
The issue is not just about recipients of pro grammes or target audiences but also about who is
deciding on and delivering the messages.

For exam ple, women’s representation in political bodies shifts
policy priorities and expands aspirations for other
women and girls.

Social movements have important
roles as well in advancing human rights and changing
cultural norms and narratives to expand agency and
freedoms (see chapter in the full Report).

“ Walls between our social connections
are perhaps more insidiously damaging and
polarizing than walls between nations
Essential to flexible and adaptable narratives, in
building trust and social cohesion for more hopeful
futures, is the freedom for each person to have and
move among different identities in different social
contexts (see chapter in the full Report).72 Walls be tween our social connections are perhaps more insid iously damaging and polarizing than walls between
nations.

The bridges that connect different groups are
among our most important assets.

Good leaders re habilitate and strengthen them and help us use them
— especially in the face of unknowns.

Demagogues
try to burn them down, replacing fluid connection,
exchange and learning with zero-sum, us-versusthem narratives.

Instead of trying out cultural scripts
precisely when experimentation matters most, peo ple become trapped by them.

Where we go from here is up to us
We must learn to live with today’s uncertainty com plex, just as we must learn to live with Covid-19.

This
year’s Human Development Report challenges us to
aspire to more than mere accommodation, however.

By unlocking our human potential, by tapping into
our creativity and diversity anchored in trust and sol idarity, it challenges us to imagine and create futures
in which we thrive.

The encouraging words of the
late, great poet and civil rights activist Maya Angelou
ring as true as ever, reminding us “to bring all our en ergies to each encounter, to remain flexible enough to
notice and admit when what we expected to happen
did not happen.

We need to remember that we are
created creative and can invent new scenarios as fre quently as they are needed.”73
Where we go from here is up to us.

One of the great
lessons of our species’ history is that we can accom plish a lot with very little if we work together towards
shared goals.

If there is a secret ingredient to human
magic, that must be it.

The challenges in the Anthro pocene and in sweeping societal transformations are
huge, even daunting, all the more so for countries and
communities struggling with the most dramatic and
unjust deprivations.

Insecurity and polarization make things worse.

Amid so much uncertainty, the truth is
that we are not going to get it right, maybe not even
most of the time.

In this turbulent new era we can
set the direction but cannot guarantee the outcome.

The good news is that we have more tools than ever to
help us navigate and course correct.

But no amount of
technological wizardry is a substitute for good lead ership, collective action or trust.

If we can start fixing
the human side of the planetary ledger — and this Re port tries to highlight how — then the future, however
uncertain, will be more promise than peril, just as it
should be.