Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1187
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

A health issue themselves, they are often
linked to other health challenges.

They can impede
school attendance and learning, as well as the abili ty to find a job and be fully productive at it.

The stig ma that often accompanies mental disorders makes
matters worse.

Mental disorders are uniquely chal lenging because the primary instrument to navigate
life’s challenges — the mind — is precisely the thing
that people living with a mental disorder may not be
able to rely on.

The other thing we tend to rely on is
relationships.

If those also suffer, people are left even
more isolated and vulnerable.

Purposeful transformations introduce
their own uncertainties
Today’s new uncertainty complex is not just about the
planetary pressures of the Anthropocene and politi cal and social polarization; it is also about purposeful
societal transformations that seek to ease planetary
pressures and leverage the positive potential of new
technologies (see chapter in the full Report).

From
energy systems to food production to transportation,
easing planetary pressures demands fundamental
changes to much of the way the world currently oper ates.

It is a necessary, wildly worthwhile investment
— ethically, environmentally, economically — but it
comes with its own significant uncertainties, espe cially for economies, livelihoods and pocketbooks.51
The energy transitions required to confront the cli mate crisis would be challenging even in the best of
times.

They become more so when stacked on top of
inequalities and social fragmentation, the rapid clip
of technological disruption and dangerous planetary
change.

The backlash in some countries to various
forms of energy taxation or carbon pricing is a case
in point.

However welcome new renewable energy
technologies may be at competitive market prices,
they carry their own environmental costs and risks,
including those related to mining to supply the mate rials for the world’s solar panels and wind turbines.52
People rightly worry about winners and losers
when big change is on the horizon.

Yes, the green
economy could add more than million jobs world wide by 2030.53 This is an exciting opportunity for
people and planet.

But these jobs will not necessarily
be in the same regions that stand to lose jobs as fos sil fuel industries shut down.

Nor will they require the
same skills as a fossil fuel–based economy.

No one
seems especially interested in a bigger overall pie if
his or her piece is feared to be getting much smaller.

Nor do people need forecasts or history books to
know that societal transformations — however well
planned or not, however “good” or not — can radical ly reshape the communities they live in, often in un expected ways where “do-overs” are not possible if
things go wrong.

Many around the world have lived
through transformations, some ongoing, in their life times.

They see them with their own eyes.

The trans formations in energy and materials required now in
the Anthropocene portend even more upheavals,
which some believe to be as large as the shift from ag ricultural to industrial societies.54
Whether it is the advent of agriculture or the In dustrial Revolution, previous tectonic shifts have
typically stretched across multiple generations.

Now,
they can happen within a generation, in a matter of
years, introducing a new kind of uncertainty or worry.

Whether through foresight or experience, that will
influence how people think about and invest in their
lives, families and communities and hold their lead ers accountable.

These are not reasons to give up on
a green economy; we cannot afford to throw in the
towel.

But if we do not understand people’s pres ent and future anxieties and address the underlying
drivers, if we do not build trust and the promise of a
better future, progress towards purposeful, just, sus tainable transformations is going to be even harder.

The net result of today’s uncertainty complex on
development is profound.

We might be facing a grow ing mismatch between what is needed to navigate
novel, interacting uncertainties and the current state
of affairs, categorized by social arrangements (what to do — in terms of policies, institutions) and the behav iours shaped by social context, culture and narratives
(how to do it — in terms of prevalent identities, values
and beliefs).

The interplay of forces — their scales,
speeds, unknown interactions and consequences —
have made development pathways simultaneously
far less obvious and far more open.

What should hap pen next can no longer be taken for granted.

A line ar march of progress in which low-income countries
chase higher income ones is less relevant.

In a sense
all countries are developing countries, charting a new
planetary course together, regardless of whether they
work together to do so.

“ In a sense all countries are developing countries,
charting a new planetary course together,
regardless of whether they work together to do so
The question is no longer simply how some coun tries get from point A to point B; instead, it is how
all countries start moving from wherever they are to
points N, T or W — or letters in some new alphabet —
and then course correct along the way.

Development
is perhaps better seen as a process characterized both
by adapting to an unfolding unknown reality and by
purposefully transforming economies and societies
to ease planetary pressures and advance inclusion.55
There is promise and opportunity in uncertainty
If necessity is the mother of invention, then the very
forces that give rise to today’s uncertainties also offer
the means to navigate them.

Uncertainty engenders
the possibility of change, also for the better.

Consider
artificial intelligence, a disruptive opportunity at least
as much as a disruptive threat.