Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1048
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

Instead, they are stacked on
top of each other, interacting and amplifying in un predictable ways.

For the first time in human history,
anthropogenic existential threats loom larger than
those from natural hazards.22
“ The layering and interactions of
multidimensional risks and the overlapping
of threats give rise to new dimensions of
uncertainty, if for no other reason than human
choices have impacts well beyond our weakened
socioecological systems’ capacities to absorb them
For this reason, in its portraiture of uncertainty, the
Report does not build scenarios.

Instead, it explores
how three novel sources of uncertainty at the global
level stack up to create a new uncertainty complex
that is unsettling lives and dragging on human devel opment (see chapter in the full Report):
- The first novel uncertainty is associated with the
Anthropocene’s dangerous planetary change and
its interaction with human inequalities.

- The second is the purposeful if uncertain transition
towards new ways of organizing industrial societies
— purporting transformations similar to those in the
transition from agricultural to industrial societies.23
- The third is the intensification of political and so cial polarization across and within countries — and
of misperceptions both about information and
across groups of people — facilitated by how new
digital technologies are often being used.24The layering and interactions of multidimensional
risks and the overlapping of threats give rise to new
dimensions of uncertainty, if for no other reason than
human choices have impacts well beyond our weak ened socioecological systems’ capacities to absorb
them.

In this new uncertainty complex shocks can
amplify and interact rather than dissipate; they can
be propagated in systems rather than stabilized by
them.

Human pulsing of natural systems at unprecedent ed intensities and scales is one side of the uncertainty
coin.

On the other are stubborn social deficits, in cluding deficits in human development, which make
it more difficult to navigate unpredictable outcomes
and to dial down those pulses in the first place.

Con sider the Covid-19 pandemic, which has as much to
do with inequalities, poor leadership and distrust as
it does with variants and vaccines.

Or competition
for environmental resources, competition that does
not typically break down into conflict.

While stressed
ecosystems can parallel grievances, grievances be come conflicts due to social imbalances.25 Political
power, inequalities and marginalization contribute
more to environmental conflict than does access to
natural resources.

Political polarization complicates matters further
(figure 4).

It has been on the rise, and uncertainty
makes it worse and is worsened by it (see chapter
in the full Report).

Large numbers of people feel frus trated by and alienated from their political systems.26
In a reversal from just years ago, democratic back sliding is now the prevailing trend across countries.27
This despite high support globally for democracy.

Armed conflicts are also up, including outside socalled fragile contexts.28 For the first time ever, more
than million people are forcibly displaced, most
of them within their own countries.29
The conjunction of uncertainty and polarization
may be paralyzing — delaying action to curb human
pressures on the planet.

The real paradox of our time
may be our inability to act, despite mounting evi dence of the distress that human planetary pressures
are causing ecological and social systems.

Unless we
get a handle on the worrying state of human affairs,
we face the Anthropocene’s vicissitudes with one
hand tied behind our backs.

Even when functioning properly, conventional
crisis response and risk management mechanisms,
such as various forms of insurance, are not up to the
task of global, interconnected disruption.

The unco ordinated responses to the Covid-19 pandemic are
a case in point.

New strategies are needed for tail
events synchronized at the global level.

Addressing
risk through diversification is difficult when volatili ty affects the entire system rather than only parts of
it.

Yet, numerous countries around the world have
been steadily chipping away at risk sharing in many
ways.30 New forms of work and their uncertainties
have become more important in technology-enabled
gig economies.

Altogether, insecurity has long been
on the rise.

And it has been on the rise for some groups more
than others.

Against a backdrop of novel, interacting
uncertainties, people with power, wealth or privilege
have the means, to some degree, to protect them selves privately and to shift more of the burden on to
others.

The groups most likely to be left behind face a world with complex new uncertainties in which most
of those uncertainties are directed at them, heaped
on persistent discrimination and human rights viola tions.31 It is not just that typhoons are getting bigger
and deadlier through human impact on the environ ment; it is also as if, through our social choices, their
destructive paths are being directed at the most vul nerable among us.