Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1153
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

Consider
artificial intelligence, a disruptive opportunity at least
as much as a disruptive threat.

Its potential for enhanc ing labour is bigger than its potential for automating
it.

New tasks, new jobs, new industries are all possi ble (figure 9).

Recall that most jobs came into being in
part through the task-creating effects of new technolo gies: around percent of people in the United States
are now employed in occupations that did not exist in
1940.56 We do not, however, have the luxury to wait
around for the long run.

The negative displacement
impacts of artificial intelligence are too big, too likely
and too fast, especially if labour-replacing incentives
dominate its development.

Policies and institutions
must be put into place that nudge artificial intelligence
towards people rather than away from them, to unlock
and frontload its potential for positive transformation.

We are already witnessing artificial intelligence’s
upside in many areas (see chapter in the full Re port).

Among its many climate-related applications,
it aids in modelling climate change impacts and in
predicting disasters.

In education it can facilitate in dividualized learning and enhance accessibility.

In
biology it has revolutionized protein folding predic tion, a huge boon for medicine.57
Among the many things the Covid-19 pandemic
broke open was our imaginations.

It expanded the
reference points for what is possible (see chapter
in the full Report).

Consider the rapid development
and distribution in many (but not all) countries of
safe, effective Covid-19 vaccines, some based on new
mRNA technologies that hold promise for preventing
and treating many other diseases.

The pandemic nor malized paid sick leave, voluntary social distancing
and self-isolation, all important for our response to
future pandemics.

The interventions by central banks over the past
two years dwarf their interventions in the wake of the
global financial crisis about a decade earlier.

Fiscal policy saw a sea change, too.

Social protection has
surged, protecting many people from even worse
impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic while providing
large-scale test cases of innovative ideas: linking na tional registries and databases for eligibility determi nation; expanding coverage to previously uncovered
beneficiaries, such as refugees, migrants and infor mal workers; and adopting digital verification and de livery systems, among other pathbreaking steps.58
Civil society has been breaking new ground, too.

In
many places the Covid-19 pandemic galvanized civil
society organizations to deliver emergency respons es, in some cases taking on new functions.59 In re sponse to expanded emergency government powers,
some civil society entities have beefed up watchdog
activities, and still others are pushing to address so cial, economic and political imbalances laid bare by
the pandemic.

As the Covid-19 pandemic has shown, the growing
mismatch between the world as it is (or is becoming)
and conventional ways of understanding and doing
things, such that more and more of life lacks an ob vious compass or structure, can be seen as an oppor tunity to do something new.

It can be an opportunity
to imagine, experiment and create, in ways similar to Tasks that
humans can doHuman tasks that could be automated
New tasks that
humans can do with
the help of machines
the work of a scientist or artist.

Existing institutions
can be transformed, and new ones created, alongside
new leaders, social movements and norms.

Much like
many scientists and artists, who are often responding
to practical personal and societal concerns, this pro cess of ongoing, creative reconstruction at all levels
is a practical response to today’s uncertainty com plex.

We will have to find ways to renew, adapt and
create institutions in the face of their inevitable short comings in an unpredictably changing world.

We will
have to experiment, to cooperate, in order to thrive.

If we do not — if we reinforce the status quo, when
the status quo is part of the problem, or limit our as pirations to a “return to normal” — the gap between
a changing world and intractable norms and institu tions will widen to a chasm.

Opportunities for inno vation and good leadership then increasingly become
dangerous vacuums in power where the allure of sim ple recipes and the easy gratifications of finger point ing combine to make the problem worse.

There is
promise and peril in uncertainty and disruption; tip ping the scales towards promise — towards hope — is
up to us.

An evolving portfolio of perspectives
helps in a world of worry
Tipping the scales towards promise requires that we
keep testing the fences of conventional thinking, to
embrace an evolving portfolio of perspectives from
which to draw, mixing and matching as emerging
contexts require.

For instance, policies and institu tions at all levels need to go beyond assuming that
people are only, or even predominantly, self-interest ed (see chapter in the full Report).

This assumption
remains highly relevant, but it is does not encompass
the totality of human behaviour.

Its limitations have
been highlighted and addressed, at least partially, by
complementary and pioneering work in behavioural
economics.

Still, we must reach for broader perspec tives of human decisionmaking, ones that consider
the roles of emotions and culture and that explore
how people weave together and change value-infused
narratives about themselves and the various commu nities they belong to.