Document: Human_Development
Section: Human Development
Tokens: 1188
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Human Development

---

perplexing disputes about vaccines generally.10 The
last mile is long in every country.

Unequal, unjust access to Covid-19 vaccines is
one of many inequalities that have weighed heavily
throughout the pandemic.

Indeed, those inequalities
have helped fuel its spread.

The groups most likely to
be left behind have borne the brunt of its health and
economic risks.

Women and girls have shouldered
even more household and caregiving responsibilities,
while violence against them has worsened (see chap ter in the full Report).11 Pre-existing digital divides
have widened gaps in children’s education access and
quality.12 Some fear a “lost generation” of learners.13
For people everywhere the Covid-19 pandemic
has generated questions without easy answers, fore most among them: When is this “over”?

Answers
have proved fleeting, often dashed by upticks in cases
or the setting of new restrictions, forcing us back to
square one.

Global supply chains remain stubborn ly knotted, contributing to inflation in all countries
— and in some, at rates not seen in decades.14 The
implications of unprecedented monetary and fiscal
interventions aiming to rescue ravaged economies,
many still scarred by the global financial crisis, re main largely uncertain.

They unspool before us in
real time and alongside resurgent geopolitical ten sions.

The pandemic is more than a virus, and it sim ply is not “over.”
With successive waves that have caught countries
flat-footed time and time again, ongoing mutability
and the seesawing of lockdowns, the Covid-19 pan demic and its seemingly endless twists and turns
have — perhaps above all else — entrenched a climate
of dogged uncertainty and unsettledness.

And this
is just one pandemic, having emerged seemingly out
of nowhere, like a phantom that cannot be exorcised.

We were long warned about the threat of novel res piratory pathogens.15 As we move deeper into the An thropocene, we have been warned that there will be
more.

A new uncertainty complex is emerging
The impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on economies
pale beside the upheavals expected by powerful new
technologies and the hazards and transformations
they pose.

What do investments in people’s education
and skills — a key part of human development — look like in the face of the disorienting pace of techno logical change, including automation and artificial
intelligence?

Or in the face of deliberate, necessary
energy transitions that would restructure societies?

More broadly, amid unprecedented patterns of dan gerous planetary change, what capabilities matter
and how?

“ The impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic
on economies pale beside the upheavals
expected by powerful new technologies and
the hazards and transformations they pose
Recent years have seen more record temperatures,
fires and storms around the world, alarming remind ers that the climate crisis marches on, alongside other
planetary-level changes wrought by the Anthropo cene.

Biodiversity collapse is one of them.

More
than million plant and animal species face extinc tion.16 As much as the Covid-19 pandemic caught us
by surprise, unprepared and fumbling for paths for ward, we have even less of an idea of how to live in a
world without, say, an abundance of insects.

That has
not been tried for about million years, when the
world’s first land plants appeared.

This is not a coin cidence.

Without an abundance of insect pollinators,
we face the mindboggling challenge of growing food
and other agricultural products at scale.

Human societies and ecological systems have long
influenced — and surprised — one another, but not
at the scales and speeds of the Anthropocene.

Hu mans are now shaping planetary trajectories,17 and
the dramatically changing baselines — from global
temperatures to species diversity — are altering the
fundamental frame of reference humans have been
operating under for millennia.

It is as if the ground
beneath our feet is shifting, introducing a new kind of
planetary uncertainty for which we have no real guide.

Material cycles, for example, have been upended.

For the first time in history, humanmade materials,
such as concrete and asphalt, outweigh the Earth’s
biomass.

Microplastics are now everywhere: in coun try-sized garbage patches in the ocean, in protect ed forests and distant mountaintops and in people’s
lungs and blood.18 Mass coral bleaching is now com monplace rather than extraordinary.19
The latest International Panel on Climate Change
Report is a “code red for humanity.”20 While we still
have the possibility to prevent excessive global warm ing and avoid the worst scenarios, human-induced
changes to our planetary system are expected to con tinue well into the future.

In essence, as science has
advanced, the models are, with better precision than
before, predicting more volatility.21
Any one of the rapid, planetary-level, human-in duced changes of the Anthropocene would be enough
on its own to inject frightening new uncertainties into
the fate of not just individuals, communities or even
nations, but of all humankind.

Recall just a few dec ades ago when chlorofluorocarbons entered global
consciousness.

Or the insecticide known as DDT be fore that.

Or nuclear proliferation before that (and,
sadly, still today).

The human-induced forces at work
in the Anthropocene are not atomized or neatly se quenced.

They are not islands of perturbations in a
sea of relative stability.

Instead, they are stacked on
top of each other, interacting and amplifying in un predictable ways.